

Good morning, city council.

This is your friendly reminder to please log in before council begins so we can have a seamless.

Roll call.

Please log in so we can do our quorum roll call.

We will begin to the council shortly.

If you forgot your login information or need help, call one.

you you you you ladies and gentlemen the city council can you please log in so we can get a quorum count and start the meeting.

I think we're at like 30.

No atoms and please call emergencies Theatre.

We are open.

Please log in.

Please submit present for the quorum.

Yes, one.

All right, I will now call if we don't have your vote in.

Alderman Hopkins not present.

Alderman King.

Alderman Harrison not present Alderman Sawyer not present Alderman Mitchell as is present Alderman Baill not present Alderman Sal manufactures not present Alderman Burke not present.

Coleman not present Alderman Curtis not present Alderman crochet not present, alderman Taylor.

not present, Alderman Brookins not present, Alderman Maldonado not present.

Oh, Alderman Maldonado, I have you.

I was on a roll.

Alderman Mitchell is present.

Alderman Nugent.

Alderman Vasquez.

Alderman Osterman.

All right, that will be, and we are closing the vote.

All right, there are 35 members present.

We have a quorum.

Please rise for the Pledge of Allegiance and remain standing.

A Pledge of Allegiance.

To the flag of the United States of America, to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.

Please remain standing for the invocation, which will be delivered by Bishop James C.

Austin, Senior of St.

Luke Church of God in Christ.

As for the floor is yours.

God bless you.

Mayor Lightfoot, the Alderman, and members of this great council, I invite you to join me in the throne room of God, where we can obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need, let us pray.

Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name.

Thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven.

We come to you, dear Lord, because you are the only one with power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessings, which we so desperately need.

Moreover, it is you who have made us and not we ourselves.

We're your people, the sheep of your pasture.

So we enter into your gates with thanksgiving, enter your courts with praise.

We thank you and bless your name because you are so good.

Your mercy is everlasting and your truth endures to all generations.

And Lord, we said, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.

In chapter 29 of book Jeremiah, you instructed us to seek the peace of the city and to pray for it.

For in the peace thereof shall we have peace.

So here we are, Lord, seeking the peace of this city.

The problems we face are so great, so diverse and complex.

We know not what to do because the cause of the distress stems from the heart.

It's a heart issue.

In the 15th chapter of St.

Matthew, you said, out of the heart, perceived evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness and blasphemies.

And these are the things that defile a man.

The 14th chapter of Proverbs says, righteousness exalts the nation, but sin is a reproach to any people.

For this cause, you sent your son Jesus from heaven to earth to give his life and to shed his precious blood so that we could be forgiven and our sins could be washed away and our souls saved.

Thank you, dear God, for loving us so much that you raised him from the grave and now he's seated at your right hand making intercession for us.

So I pray that you give us a clean heart, oh Lord, and renew within us a right spirit.

Let this council adopt the Christ agenda which addresses the needs of the poor, the brokenhearted, the captive, the blind and the bruised.

I commend to you all the members of this council for these are social healers and the healers need healing.

The providers need provision, the protectors need protection, the peacemakers need peace and these who show mercy need your mercy.

So I ask that you send your Holy Spirit and sweep through this assembly, refresh, renew and fill every person here with your Holy Spirit, transform them by the renewing of their minds and make these social healers whole.

I ask this in the matchless name of Jesus, the matchless name of Jesus, the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last, our King Eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, our Savior and the only eternal potentate.

Amen, amen and amen.

Thank you.

Sorry, we're having a little bit of a disconnect.

Gentlemen, public comment, Mr.

Clark.

The council will now begin the public comment period, which is limited to a maximum of 30 minutes.

Each speaker is limited to three minutes.

Speakers cannot yield or transfer their time to another speaker.

Any written comments that have been submitted will be posted and made available for all dramatic review.

The first speaker today is Kenny Doss II.

Good morning, Mayor.

Good morning, council.

We, one Inglewood United, an indigenous organization, despite the liberate the Inglewood community, we are building a power base with the intentions to bring good jobs, quality food zones, safe streets, quality education and world-class health systems.

One Inglewood United demands equality and inclusion.

We are here today to send a concise message.

There will be no more businesses using.

Reclaim Inglewood.

Thank you, Mr.

Doss, for your comments.

Our next speaker is Mr.

George Blakemore.

Good afternoon, citizen.

Afternoon, Mr.

Blakemore.

This morning.

What's wrong? You getting a little old and senile? But anyway, I am speaking to the people.

People's power.

Inglewood have turned Hispanic.

Black people have been social engineers out of the city of Chicago.

Over a million and a half have left.

Under Miss Lightfoot, no.

Under Dave and Imania.

Not Lady Lightfoot.

Well, are you up here to campaign for Lady Lightfoot? Perhaps I am.

Why not? Everything that has happened is happening to our so-called global city today.

And then happening, she didn't bring it here.

Nepotism, racism, corruption.

She didn't bring it here.

I'm speaking to my Black people.

Thank you, Mary.

She didn't bring it here.

We have dropped the ball.

The Black population, the Black people, the so-called Black leadership.

Why did a million and a half Black leave the city of Chicago? Hispanics are moving in.

Legal or illegal? The new Americas, Asia, whites.

Why have Blacks been gentrified out at the cleansing? And he's talking about Inglewood.

Inglewood will be a Hispanic community.

London, the exit of Black people.

You know, they had to preach or preach.

Now let me do a little preaching.

In Egypt, the old Pharaoh, the people had to leave.

And we are leaving because we have no job, good contracts and service.

All of that that come with the casino, I believe in a status quo for Black people.

20% of the job.

20% of the professional job.

Why are you, Mr.

Bregmore, saying that Blacks are entitled to 20% of these jobs because we are the only people that was enslaved in America.

And we never got our reparation.

And we still on the new plantation.

So all of you all that's speaking against Ms.

Lightfoot, look in the mirror.

You are part of the property.

You're not part of the solution.

Now you said good afternoon.

Well, I'm saying good morning.

Good morning.

Thank you very much, Mr.

Blakemore for your comments.

Our next speaker is Sophia Stein.

Hello.

My name is Sophie Stein and I'm a resident of the city's first ward.

I'm here today with the bring Chicago home campaign as a volunteer with the Jewish council on urban affairs.

The bring Chicago home resolution or BCH has laid dormant in the rules committee for more than 16 months in November, the bring Chicago home coalition and our allied Alders called a special city council meeting to host a hearing on this resolution.

The subject matter hearing was a necessary step to get our resolution on the ballot.

The hearing fell one person short of having a quorum.

We are very disappointed by this lack of action on the part of the mayor and the city council to show up to this meeting and even give an opportunity for discussion on the important bring Chicago home ordinance.

Today, the bring Chicago home coalition and our allied Alders are reintroducing the bring Chicago home resolution.

We remain committed to fighting for this important measure to provide a dedicated revenue stream to fund housing and wraparound services for the 65,000 Chicagoans currently experiencing homelessness.

The who are homeless.

It is not enough for the City Council and the mayor to acknowledge this problem.

We need their action and so we call on our elders and our mayor to sign on to this ordinance and meet with us on this important issue.

Thank you.

Thank you Ms.

Stein for your comments.

Our next speaker is Melvin Bailey.

Good morning City Council.

Good morning.

It's been a while since- good morning Mayor.

Been a while since I spoke to you guys.

I want you to do one thing for me.

Google CAN TV and you'll see how many times I came down here under previous administration asking for opportunity but I must tell the truth.

This mayor and the Housing Department heard that.

This mayor and this Housing Department heard because now we are breaking ground to build affordable housing started in Alderman's Urban's Ward and Alderman Walter Burnett's Ward and I'd like to thank the mayor and please Google and you will hear my conversation have not changed since the last administration.

Mayor Day's administration, Ron administration, we need to get the guns out of these kids hands with opportunity in a job.

So thank God that the mayor and the Housing Department Miss- Commissioner Navarro and Will Edwards and I had them on the phone and they say Melvin how can we help? I said we need some workforce development money so I can hire them guys on Walnut and I told the guys on Walnut when we go in the ground I'm gonna hire y'all.

So right now we got we got eight individuals employed with the workforce development money from the city of Chicago and I know we can do more because we got to get these guns out of these kids and whoever heard of 50 robberies in one day who heard of that? That's insane and they are kids and I know we can reach them with the right opportunity and the right chances.

So thank God to this administration to say Melvin every time I go to the Alderman's office, Jason Irvin, Alderman Mitz, every Alderman that I go to is an open door policy.

Pat Dowd talking about Melvin I want to help.

What can I do? Derek Curtis, all of them, Miss Taylor so we need to put and wrap our arms around this situation because we got to get the guns out of these kids and it's too many guns thrown in our community.

Somebody bringing them in from somewhere so but I know I can reach the kids and I know the brothers that was in here from Inglewood can reach them as well.

So what we have to do is make sure that we can, as you can see, I'm so passionate about it because when I talk to the young brothers they was like big bruh you can have this gun get me a job I don't want to do this but I have no opportunity.

So again the mayor and the Alderman's reaching down in the bottom of the barrel to make sure that this of this crazy and madness can stop.

So that's what we need to do and then I'm gonna leave you with this mayor.

One thing we need to look at the fire department.

I'm switching gears because I had some kids fill out the application for the fire department.

They was like and they was on the list did all that for qualifications and they went down to the bottom of the barrel and they African Americans.

So I just want to say thank you mayor and it's admitted the housing department.

Thank you for opening up your ears.

Just Google can TV.

Just Google and you'll see I haven't changed my language and my tone haven't changed about changing lives.

Thank you very much Mr.

Bailey for your comments.

Our next speaker is Vance White.

Mr.

White are you present? Our next speaker is Zach Savela Stollard.

Mayor Lightfoot and members of the City Council.

My name is Zach Savela Stollard, a resident representing Stop Predatory Gambling Illinois.

Fire of a national nonprofit that works to prevent gambling operators from targeting vulnerable victims.

I come here today to respectfully ask members of this body to vote no on the Valley's casino proposal.

Valleys have shown casinos increase addiction locally and this casino will profit at the expense of our neighbors with increased social costs for the city canceling out any revenue.

I realize this process seems to be moving towards an inevitable casino but you still have a chance today.

Chicago has been down this road before deals with short-term gain and long-term pain from lack of transparency and choosing the wrong partners.

As Alderman Riley said yesterday this process began with a secret evaluation followed by a council committee which has been bypassed by the mayor who chose Valleys without the real support or consultation of this council.

All of this took place in just over a month without adequate traffic studies or public safety plans for both sites.

Valleys seems to have been chosen as one thing in mind the $40 million upfront payment that could make this year's budget work before an election.

Valleys is a fitting partner for such a short-sighted choice as they themselves have a clear pattern of short-term gain and long-term pain.

Their leaseback deal chases cash in exchange for greater long-term financial obligations.

It is a sign of their poor cash position and creates a concerning lack of clarity about who actually owns this significant property as no legally required updated economic disclosure form has been published listing those with financial interest in the new property owner.

Valleys is a house card that puts the city at risk.

Their most recent earnings report showed only 600,000 in net earnings in the last quarter and negative earnings over the last four quarters with cash at 164 million and consistently declining.

They have over 3 billion in debt commitments which continue to increase.

This has been their pattern with the consent decree and fines in Rhode Island.

The casino they point to is proof they can handle this project because of their too high debt ratio and putting payouts to shareholders over keeping up their property as well as a bankruptcy in 2009 while under Twin River Twin River and BLB investors names which they blatantly lied about at the last town hall.

As they scrambled to explain their earnings call their cash neither for this project rests upon deals elsewhere that have not yet taken place.

The rest comes from a crowdfunding initiative here which remains without detail.

Financial analysts have downgraded Valleys outlook to negative and their CEO sold nearly half a million dollars in stock this week.

The financial industry and even Valleys own CEO knows they are a bad bet.

Is this really a partner on which we want to stake our future? We want an operator that can't keep up their property, goes bankrupt again, ends up embroiled in consent decrees and fines for failed promises like they have in Rhode Island or even fails to complete the project.

Please don't make getting a supposed achievement before the upcoming election such a high priority but it blows up in your face hurts the city and becomes the weight around your neck for the next election.

Chicago didn't forget the parking meters and we won't forget this.

Please vote no on the please vote no on the Valleys proposal this is your last chance to do the right thing and slow this down to make sure we're being responsible on behalf of all Chicagoans.

Thank you.

Thank You Mr.

Stoller for your comments.

Our next speaker is Justin Williams.

Hello members of the City Council.

Far South Side residents have been waiting since 1968 for the Red Line extension when it was promised by Mayor Richard J Daly.

Chicagoans have since watched the cost of the project balloon to billions rather than millions of dollars.

They've also watched expansion of transit access into the near west side, the McCormick Place community of the south loop, along the brown line and the groundbreaking of the red purple modernization.

Now hopefully it's time for the residents of the far south side to see the Red Line extension come into existence.

The Chicagoans, just like every Chicago resident, deserves equitable access to high-quality rapid transit.

For that reason, I come to you today representing the Metropolitan Planning Council, Active Transportation Alliance, and the Center for Neighborhood Technology to ask for your yes vote for the Red Line extension tax increment financing district.

Put simply, we support this transit TIF because it will provide rapid transit in an area of the city that has long awaited transportation investment.

It will connect people to jobs and amenities throughout the city and reduce travel times to the loop by 30 minutes.

It will benefit the city as a whole by giving employers access to an expanded labor market, increasing development potential of underutilized land, increasing tax revenues, and helping the city meet its climate action plan transportation goals.

This project also centers racial equity in its financing.

Our organizations do not always support tips.

As a market-based tool, tips are too often used in areas where developers already want to invest due to the overly broad definition of blight.

Tips are too infrequently used to finance projects in areas that have little development momentum because of the inability to raise sufficient funds.

In the case of the Red Line extension, the wealth generation potential of downtown and the near south side is being used to finance investment in historically disinvested areas.

This is a good use of TIF.

The Red Line extension carries tremendous potential when coupled with other city incentives and programs.

The city's new connected communities ordinance passed in 2022, which deepens incentives for development near transit, provides new opportunities to build housing, retail, and walkable, accessible, thriving streetscapes along this corridor.

That potential is magnified as the city leverages other programs like Invest Southwest to create vibrant, equitable, transit-oriented development around these new Red Line extension stations.

We thank you for your consideration of this major opportunity for Chicago's south side.

Metropolitan Planning Council, Active Transportation Alliance, and Center for Neighborhood Technology urge your yes vote for the Red Line extension.

Thank you.

Thank you Mr.

Williams for your comments.

Your honor, there are no other speakers who have timely signed up for the public comment period.

All right, this ends our public comment period.

We now have several resolutions, ladies and gentlemen.

Actually, before we get to that, the chair recognizes Chairman Harris.

Madam President, I move for the temporary suspension of the rules for the immediate consideration of the Rules Committee report, including the recommendation of the appointment of a new alderman for the 12th Ward and associated resolution establishing her committee membership and other items.

Madam President and members of the City Council, reporting for your committee and committees on rules which met yesterday, December 13, 2022, the committee recommends passage of the appointment of Annabelle Abarca as the 12th Ward alderman.

Chairman Harris, if you could just pause for a moment while we get everybody aligned.

Okay.

Ladies and gentlemen, the City Council of Standard Ease for three minutes.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Chairman Harris.

Madam President, I renew my motion for the temporary suspension of the rules for the immediate consideration of the Rules Committee report, including the recommendation of the appointment of a new alderman for the 12th Ward.

And associated resolution establishing her committee membership and other items.

Hearing no objection so order.

Madam President and members of the City Council, reporting for your committees on committees and rules which met yesterday December 13, 2022, the committee recommends passage of the appointment of Annabelle Abarca as the 12th Ward alderman.

Thank you, Chairman Harris.

Are there any members of the City Council who wish to speak to this item.

Chairman Harris.

I am always in the lake.

Yeah.

Out, out close.

The chair recognizes alderman Vegas.

Thank you, Madam Chair.

I understand to be associated with this appointment.

This is a good appointment someone who's has a track record and understanding how to deliver consistent constituent services.

Now you'll be in charge of ensuring that those constituents services actually get delivered.

I also excited to have you join the caucus and and bring some knowledge as an attorney to help guide the, the policy decisions that the caucus will be moving forward so we're very excited about this appointment looking forward to working with you.

Congratulations.

Thank you Chairman Villegas, the chair recognizes all the men are.

Thank you, thank you, Madam President, get also welcome to the council on behalf of the automatic black caucus we look forward to working with you and the constituents in the 12th Ward and again, it's still not too late, if you choose to turn around but nonetheless, welcome.

The chair recognizes alderman had.

Congratulations, looking forward to working with you to your family and support system that are here.

Make sure you invest a lot of time energy resources and stress management, hoping strategies, health plans all kinds of fun things to back you up I know that you've been in the word office and you know the type of work that it takes.

But now you'll be in this seat and it's a little slightly different.

I won't warn you away like some of my colleagues I think it's very worth.

It's very worth the work, it's worth the responsibility.

And congratulations on joining spotty.

Thank you alderman had in the chair recognizes all the women leave.

Madam President, and Annabelle, on behalf of the newbie caucus, the unofficial newbie caucus.

Welcome.

Welcome to the club, I'm going to be happy to have you as a seatmate, and in particular as a neighbor, a neighboring ward, look forward to working with you very closely.

As we have some got some some constituents that are going to be switching places and getting to know each other's words in that way so thank you very much and good luck.

And I'll see you soon.

Thank you all the women lead the chair recognizes all the men spasado.

Thank you, Madam President, Annabelle best wishes to you.

Just to let you know I know you know you know we're joking when we say it's not too late to run, but we know you know what the job's about we know you know the demands the hours, so on and so forth so I'm sure you're up to the task.

There are 49 people here you could lean on anytime so hopefully you get everybody's phone number, any help, we're all here, probably best leaning on to three newbies they could probably help you more than any of us can let you know what's going on so, but with that, just want to wish you the best look forward to working with you and hopefully, you know, you and me when our elections and we're working together for former year so best wishes to you.

Thank you all to miss Bizotto the chair recognizes all the men Burnett.

Thank you very much also like to rise and support of disappointment.

Congratulations to you, Annabelle.

I want to thank you for helping my friend, George, the Deaness.

Thank you for your patience with him.

You're, you're strong lady, you know, and you help to propel him to where he is.

I know a lot of staff for a lot of us really do a lot of the work for us in the community so I appreciate what you've done, you know for the community, and I know you're going to do well so congratulations to you and we're all here to help you.

Thank you.

You all are in Burnett.

Any other members of the body that wish to speak to this resolution.

I'm in Lopez.

Thank you, Madam President Good Morning members of the city council and good morning, Annabelle and to your family.

It's a miracle, not just because of my clothes, but I get to actually commend the mayor on this pick, or someone I know personally, someone that my husband and I both have had the pleasure of working next to both for the greater good of our shared experiences but also on the political front as well.

And to say that we've been in the trenches together before and to see you here now is truly a remarkable thing that I'm proud to be a part of to witness.

I also want to offer my services in case you need any good fashion sense.

I do have none, but Hugo is available for you.

But I do have a word of caution for my colleagues as well.

I'm going to talk about Annabelle.

Don't take her lightly.

She comes from great stock.

And if you didn't know she could deadlift 290 pounds very easily, which means she could probably take out any one of us at any given time.

If we don't cooperate and show us show her our best.

Madam President, I gladly support your nomination.

I welcome you to your seat and look forward to working with you now and in years to come.

Thank you, Madam President, the chair recognizes all the men more.

Thank you, Madam President.

Actually I was just, you know, gonna ditto what everybody else said but the young lady in the back of you in the pink is that your niche your daughter your sister.

She's so excited and happy up there she is.

She's, she's sitting tall her face is looking she's smiling.

And what that tells me is that when somebody young and somebody see somebody winning that they can see themselves in and I think that's what she can see herself, and you, that does.

That's big and that's what this is about.

And I, you know you serve the chief of staff, nobody has to preach to you, nobody has to tell you what it takes because an all off all 10 purposes, you're a good chief of staff that you mean you were the ultimate you just went sitting on here, taking votes.

And so you know what to do already you know to put the people first, and I welcome you to this chambers, and as always, we're here to support you and you make sure you just keep your independent voice for your people.

All right, thank you so much.

Knudsen.

And about first off congratulations.

I've had I loved our couple of calls that we've had over the past few weeks.

The feeling you're probably having of excitement and nerves and adrenaline because we know outside of this year, you're doing some work to, to keep the job is something, something to carry forward.

And I can always say I know how involved you've been.

I'm looking forward to working with you and we'll all always have the special relationship that Nicole Lee and Monique Scott and I have the newbies.

So I've got to make the joke now that it's nice to be senior to one person on on council, but I'm really just excited, excited to work with you.

I'm really excited about things that we can all do together going forward and kind of representing a new crop coming in and I look forward to our next conversations and just huge congratulations take it all in, take a breath, and it's going to be exciting.

Thank you.

The chair recognizes thank you all to me, Knudsen.

The chair recognizes all to me, Rodriguez.

And then welcome to the, to the, to the work to the discipline to city council as the chair of the Chicago Latino Caucus Foundation.

I'm on the council side I'm on the foundation side.

It's going to be good to have you.

We share some boundaries, and I'm looking forward to working with you at this time to make sure that we're improving our communities.

Everybody okay back there.

And, you know, the work ahead is difficult, but it requires steadfast leadership committed leadership.

And I know you're going to be committed to that work, and I look forward to work with you, not just city wide, but particularly in our neck of the woods as well.

Thank you, Madam President.

Thank you, Alderman Rodriguez, Chairman Harris I think it's back to you.

Thank you.

I just want to say, on behalf of the Rules Committee welcome, I'm excited and thrilled about having another female be down here and work with us so welcome welcome welcome women rock.

So I move passage of this appointment by a roll call vote.

Please use the Evo application record your vote at this time.

The voting is now open, hit refresh and submit your vote.

Thank you.

All right, I will take a voice vote for anyone who hasn't voted yet, Alderman Laspada.

Alderman Laspada is a yes.

Alderman Dall Alderman Dall is a yes.

Alderman Curtis, not present Alderman broken, oh he has came in all the men Rodriguez Sanchez, not present.

All the memory Maris Rosa.

Not present Alderman Martin.

Alderman Martin is a yes.

Alderman Osterman, Alderman Osterman is a yes.

Alderman Vasquez is a yes.

Voting is now closed.

All right.

There are 43 yays no names.

I'm sorry 44 yays, no nays, Alderman capital men on the motion for reconsideration.

Madam President I move to reconsider the vote.

All those in favor of the motion for reconsideration signify by saying I, all those opposed say nay.

The nays have it the motion for reconsideration fails.

Ms.

Barker, please come to the dais.

The oath of office will be administered by the Honorable Rosa Silva, judge of the circuit court of Cook County, and among the many friends and family members joining.

Our, our Jose a barker, her father, Julia, a quesita, her mother, and Angelica a barker her sister, and they are going to a nice will be holding the Bible.

Thank you for being here.

Please raise your right hand and repeat after me.

I, I, I, I will support the Constitution of the United States, that I will support the Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the state of Illinois, and the Constitution of the state of Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Alderman of the Office of Alderman of the city of Chicago, of the city of Chicago, according to the best of my ability, according to the best of my ability.

Congratulations.

The chair recognizes all remember net.

I'm just happy to finally see a group of people standing up there at a regular height, this fantastic.

Alderman barka do you wish to address the body.

I do.

Please proceed.

Thank you Council members for your support, and for the opportunity to speak before this distinguished body.

I am honored and excited to join you as a colleague.

I want to thank Mayor Lightfoot, the appointment committee, and the residents of the 12 Ford.

I'd like to thank my friends and mentors who have guided me.

Yesenia Rudy, Adam Michelle, Jim Mara Juan Anil Tessa kit carry and a list, so long that I am reminded of just how blessed I am.

I want to thank my family, my sister Angelica my niece Naya, my brother Mario, my piano and my family watching in Mexico.

I'd like to thank the staff and the volunteers of the 12 Ford.

My law firm, bakery drinker for their support and partners Nick Lenny and Sulema.

I'd like to thank Commissioner Cardenas for his support for the invaluable lessons, working as chief of staff was the best possible training for this job.

And my parents.

For the yo so he had the papa's immigrant this padres que como míles de otro viniero nice to pay is one of portal is part of a solid.

He can set sacrificado total or possibly paralo see hos.

He como muchos de nuestra como nida yo sola yja que yo doh cuando me mama no habla bain glace como el hijo que fuel primero de era la secondaria.

Miss papa's men saying Aaron I'm printing me Los Casos de PC less men saying Aaron get them a axion sin tomorrow.

Men saying you're okay.

Can you walk up on the integrity that he conviction.

In men saying Aaron can was through logos no son is lados son tambien de la comunidad.

He knows logos on Paris a liberal and by the car at those can also know you got on.

Gracias amis papa's work a yo son see though, he's on the rest on the micasa, he like outside of me restaurant.

Hard work integrity, love of family, love of our city and uplifting others.

These are the principles and values that I was taught as a child and that so many of our communities share.

These principles and values have guided me through college, when I interned for the European Union grad school when I was registering voters and hundred degree weather law school.

And as an attorney, where Latinas make up 2% of the legal field.

And where I help expand records to put lives back on track.

And so it is these principles, these lessons, this work ethic that I take with me and I pledge to give my 100% to a child again I see him.

And to put them into action, as I serve the residents of the 12 board.

Thank you.

All right, Chairman Harris.

I'm sorry, Madam Clerk, we've called the role, Sergeant in Arms will you please escort our new alderman to her seat.

Madam Clerk will you please add older woman, a barker to the role for purposes of corn.

Chairman Harris.

Thank you, Madam President.

The second item on our report is a resolution updating our committee assignments resolution to include all demand a bark replacing the former alderman I moved past is by the same role call in the rules committee report and the associated with the city council on the report is an ordinance correcting the city council journal proceedings of April 21 2021 I move passage of this in the omnibus.

The fourth item on the report is an ordinance correcting the city council journal or proceedings of July 20 2021 regarding an ordinance amending remote theater restoration.

I move to 022 dash 2340 I move passage of this item in omnibus hearing no objection so order, and the final item on the report is a resolution recording election of Alvin Starks as Sergeant at Arms LaVey to Parnell Torian cops and Anthony P.

Mark Harper as assistant Sergeant in Arms for the remainder of the 2019 2023 city council term, I move passage of the item in omnibus hearing no objection so order that concludes my report I now move that we return to the regular order of business hearing no objection so order.

Next up ladies and gentlemen we have resolutions.

The first of which is a memorial resolution for Mirna Salazar.

Make sure that we have folks into the box.

Thank you.

The newbies.

Ladies and gentlemen for those of you who don't know, Mirna Salazar passed away unexpectedly, earlier this year.

And it was a resolution here in Chicago, and the legacy that she left, particularly in the arts community.

We have a resolution sponsored by myself and Alderman Villegas to honor her legacy.

Here are members of her family including her two daughters.

to speak to this resolution.

The chair recognizes Alderman Villegas.

Thank you, Madam President.

I stand to be associated with this resolution.

Milna Salazar was a once in a lifetime visionary and creator of possibility in a Chicago icon.

She was a Latina Trailblazers whose impact on art, education and business throughout the city has shattered ceilings and paved the way for countless generations to come.

For interrupting.

In my haste, I've neglected to seek a suspension of the rules to consider the resolution.

Alderman Mitchell.

Madam President, I move for temporary suspension of the rules so we can consider these.

For the many consideration for these resolutions.

Hearing no objection, so ordered.

Apologies, Alderman Villegas.

Please continue.

Milna was a force and dynamic leader.

She was the first Puerto Rican Day Parade Queen in 1966.

She contributed to the development of Paseo Boriqua in Humboldt Park.

She was the co-founder and executive director of the Chicago Latino Theater Alliance.

She was a member of many boards, including the City of Chicago Advisory Council on cultural affairs and special events.

Her greatest work was Destinos.

The Chicago International Latino Theater Festival, which is Chicago's annual citywide festival that showcases Latino theater artists and companies from Chicago, US, and Latin America.

Milna Salazar was a true change maker at a time that was especially difficult and unheard of for women, much less Latinas.

We're so proud to acknowledge what she's done for Chicago.

When I've mentioned her name in other communities, she was always well-respected as well.

She was always championing Chicago everywhere she went in the arts, encouraging people to come to Chicago to see what it is that we had to offer.

She'll be missed.

And again, my condolences to the family.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you, the chair recognizes Alderman Maldonado.

Thank you, Madam President.

I also would like to express my deepest sense of condolences to the family of Milna Salazar.

I met Milna maybe about 25 years ago.

At the time she was already working for the Westtown Economic Development Corporation.

During the time in which I started and engaged into a relationship with her, I learned about her two daughters who are here today, whom I think I met at least maybe 10, 15 years ago when they were still 10 years old or 11 years old.

But I do remember also learning that she was the first Puerto Rican queen of the Puerto Rican festival and the Puerto Rican parade committee.

And obviously when you would look at her, it was almost undeniable not to believe that.

She was absolutely gorgeous.

She was beautiful.

And one of the things that I learned from her years later was her passion for Latino theater.

And I did not know that she had moved from the Westtown Economic Development Movement and endeavor into working for the arts and trying to develop and solidify the Latino theater area in the city of Chicago.

And I also remember on a personal level, I mean, she used to, I mean, we used to have a very friendly, personal relationship.

And she used to tell me over the years, ¿Véto? Tú mácora la mucho de mi primerepos? You remind me so much about my ex-husband.

Right? Junior Michel.

That's in Puerto Rican.

It's Michel, right? Junior Michel.

He used to, we used to call it Junior Michel.

I never met him.

I had never met him in my life.

But to me, I never asked her if that was good or that was bad.

I just left it at that.

But I always gonna remember Myrna as a very good personal friend.

We could, we possibly would not see each other for a year or two years.

And it was like seeing her and engaging in a conversation like if I had seen her the day before.

That's how engaging she was and how, and that was the type of personal impact she left upon you.

She would miss, you have a wonderful, beautiful mother.

And I know that you're gonna cherish it in your heart.

And I know that she's looking upon you right now as we speak.

Thank you, Audemars.

Any other members of the body that wish to speak to this resolution? The chair recognizes, Audemars-Lee.

Thank you, Madam President.

And I also rise in support of this resolution.

To Myrna's family, I had one opportunity to work with your mom a couple of times in a previous life, my job at United Airlines.

And I recall hearing the news of her passing suddenly and just thinking to myself, what a loss for our community.

You didn't need to know her very well to understand and feel all of the passion that she had for the work that she did.

That just oozed out of her.

So I wanna thank you for her and her contribution to this entire city.

We were talking about the Cenos when I was introduced to her.

And it was so clear the passion that she had for the arts and what that delivers and gives to our community.

And not just the Latino community of the city of Chicago, but to the world and the arts as a way to unite people.

So please know that she made an indelible mark on many people, even someone like me who only met her a couple of times.

I'm so very sorry for your loss.

Thank you.

Thank you, Alderman Lee.

The chair recognizes Alderman Rodriguez.

I didn't get a chance to know Ms.

Salazar well, but I know throughout my years of work in the community that I passed her many, many a time.

And I have some very good friends in the dais there.

And I know that if she was a good friend of them, she would have been a great friend of mine.

I've read so much about her excellence and the legacy that she will leave to our great city.

That I just had to make sure to stand and rise and be associated with this and just offer you my condolences.

But then also offer you your blessings because the fact is that we're all blessed for her presence, but especially those who were closest to her.

So spend the rest of the day celebrating her life as we will as well.

Thank you, Madam President.

Thank you.

And I should add that in the box are her daughters, Eliana Romero, Yvette Sharp, Sarah Carranza, a director of communications Esteban Shemburg, production coordinator, Marty Castro, a Unito introduction, but board chair and CEO and president of Casa Central, Carlos Tortola, also needing no introduction, the president and founder of the Mexican museum, also Mari Carmen, a family friend and Amy McCarty.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for being here.

The chair next recognizes Odom and Sixto Lopez.

Thank you, Madam Chair.

And to the family and the friends here today on behalf of the 25th Ward residents or heartfelt condolences and or deep admiration for Mirna, I had the opportunity to meet her in several locations.

As you know, Pilsen is a center for local, especially Latinx artists across the city.

And I tell you that I have never met such a dynamic, compassionate and determined person.

She exemplifies what we like to see of a leaders in our community and in a local artist, we have tremendous leadership.

Mirna represented that.

She will certainly be missing our community.

She was not only a person of great determination, but great creativity.

She discussed with us way on how we can repurpose, utilize and expand our spaces for local artists.

I am so glad to see artists, local artists, like Ricardo Gamboa, who are so close to her, mentor by her, and now we have spaces that have been utilized as the Apple building, as you know.

It was wonderful to see now our artists having spaces where they can do local theater, which has been missing our community.

Great credit for Mirna and her vision, the determination, and her legacy lives on with the wonderful, wonderful initiatives that she created like Destinos.

It was such an honor to have the pleasure to work a little bit with her during one of the most difficult times in the city of Chicago.

And I tell you that she was out there as the determined leader that she was.

Despite the difficulties and challenges, she was out there walking the walk with our community as challenging as there has been, and making this, creating this legacy that lives on in our community.

So to the family, to you, our commitment to keep honoring her legacy with actions and to continue to support local artists in our community and beyond, her legacy lives on.

And it is a pleasure to see you today with us for deepest condolences.

She'll be dearly missed.

Thank you, Alderman.

The chair recognizes Alderman, Ramirez Rosa.

Thank you, Madam Chair.

I too rise to be associated with this ordinance.

It's great that we as the representatives of this great city can take a moment to remember Mirna Salazar.

She was an icon, she was a trailblazer.

She was someone who took risks to advance the interests of her community.

And because of her work, she helped put the Chicago theater community on the map.

She made an impact not just locally, but nationally and globally.

She was someone who understood the necessity to work across lines of nationality to advance the agenda for the Latino community and for all Chicagoans.

And so for that, it's such a great honor to be able to recognize her today, to remember her, she was truly someone who left an impact.

And so despite the fact that she's no longer here with us today, her legacy continues.

And we're gonna continue to feel the work that she's done for many generations to come.

So thank you to her family for sharing us, for sharing her with us for all these years, our deepest condolences, and may she rest in peace.

Thank you, Alderman Ramirez Rosa.

Any other members who wish to speak to this resolution? I stand with the entire body to speak to this resolution.

Today, we have the great honor of recognizing the life and legacy of Mira Salazar, your mother, your friend, your colleague.

Up until her passing this summer, Ms.

Salazar was hard at work, doing what she loved most, which was paving pathways for Latinx artists to find success and thrive in the theater industry.

And I wanna talk a little bit about the work that she did over so many years.

As Alderman Maldonado stated, she got her start advocating for Chicago's Latinx community by working at the Westtown Economic Development Corporation.

And as an economic development specialist there, she helped to generate millions of dollars in housing and business development, an effort that would eventually shape our iconic Puerto Rican neighborhood and the Humboldt Park neighborhood as a whole.

This work would inspire and prepare Ms.

Salazar to create her own talent agency, which she presided over for 25 years and helped to further the careers of many beloved Latinx Chicago artists.

And in the years after that, she dedicated her time and talents to a variety of organizations, including the Chicago Board of Education, the Chiu Chicago Board, the League of Chicago Theaters Board, and even our own city's Advisory Council on Cultural Affairs and Special Events, which is where I met her.

Time and again, through iconic works such as Destinos, the Chicago International Latino Theater Festival, Ms.

Salazar found ways to uplift Latinx culture and creatives.

And she will always be remembered as a change maker who overcame many barriers.

But I will say one of the things that struck me most was the beautiful words that her daughter spoke at her funeral.

One can only hope that our children appreciate the sacrifices that we've done for them, but also our contributions to our community in a way that you celebrated your mother.

I don't think there was a dry eye in the church that was packed and overflowing.

People came to celebrate, to mourn, but to also grieve with you and support you on your journey through your own grief and loss of your mother.

So I just wanna say thank you.

I think you're a beautiful legacy and testament to how powerful your mother was as a Latina, brave and bold and innovative, and her legacy will live on for many lifetimes to come.

And thank you for allowing us to honor her and honor you, your family, friends and colleagues.

Alderman Mitchell.

Madam President, I move adoption of the resolution by a rising vote.

Please rise.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next resolution is one brought by our colleague, Alderman Deborah Silverstein.

Alderman.

Thank you, Madam President.

I wanna thank my colleagues for supporting the resolution condemning Kanye West's antisemitic actions.

The 50th Ward felt the string of antisemitism earlier this year.

Swastikas were drawn on synagogues and schools and windows were broken at Jewish owned businesses and places of worship.

The attacks came merely days after Holocaust Remembrance Day.

Tragically, hate is on the rise.

Antisemitic incidents like these have increased by 430% in Illinois between 2016 and 2021, according to the Anti-Defamation League.

Locally, hate crimes are up 71% in Chicago this year.

The most frequent targets are Jewish residents.

The Chicago metropolitan area has one of the world's largest concentrations of Jewish households with a population of more than 300,000 people.

Many of those residents are centered around the 50th Ward.

We have more synagogues and Jewish owned businesses and a two mile stretch here than in the rest of the city combined.

When public figures like Kanye West are left free to spout antisemitic hate speech, attacks on Jews follow.

His public support of Hitler and Nazi emboldens bigots.

And when he posts Swastikas on Twitter, Jewish owned businesses and synagogues fear that they may find one spray painted on their walls.

Don't believe it? In November, Vandal spray painted Kanye was right, along with Swastikas on more than a dozen gravestones in a Jewish cemetery in Waukegan.

Similar banners were hung over a Los Angeles freeway in October, and we all heard someone say the same thing just a couple of months ago during public comment and city council.

This is not a coincidence.

Hate is like a disease and it spreads when it's not confronted.

Elie Wiesel, the author of Night and one of the most powerful chroniclers of the Holocaust once said, we must take sides.

Neutrality helps the oppressor, never the victim.

Silence encourages the tormentor, never the tormented.

It is time to take a side.

It is time to confront Kanye and other antisemites, to condemn him and stop giving him a platform for spreading hate and lies.

Thank you.

Thank you for Alderman Silverstein.

Thank you for bringing this forward.

As we talked about at one of our last meetings, we cannot tolerate hate in our city.

And Elie Wiesel is 100% right.

If we are silent and we're bystanders, hate wins and we must do everything we can to stamp it out.

So thank you for bringing forth this resolution in particularly emphasizing the aftermath of the consequences of Kanye West's hateful speech.

Thank you.

Any other members of the body that we should speak to? This resolution.

The chair recognizes Alderman Knudsen.

Thank you, Mayor.

And thank you, Alderman Silverstein, for bringing forward this resolution.

I'm very proud to co-sponsor this resolution and I'm proud to represent a very strong Jewish community in the 43rd Ward.

What we're doing from the Ward side to talk about Fight Against Ants and the Jewish community in the 43rd Ward.

And what we're doing from the Ward side to talk about Fight Against Ants and anti-Semitism is a lot of speaking about it publicly and speaking about how hate is on the rise against the Jewish community as well as other communities.

We've seen a spike of anti-Semitic language within our Ward, the 43rd Ward, as well as anti-LGBTQ language with a few recent incidents.

It's up to all of us to speak on these issues and do not condone any of this language.

We see what this language does in communities.

With the LGBTQ community, we recently saw a horrific shooting in Colorado Springs.

We had a resolution earlier a couple months ago against the crimes and shootings that have been against the Jewish community.

We have to fight this.

We have to acknowledge that hate is on the rise and I wanna join Alderman Silverstein just in recommending everyone talk about this very straightforward with your words.

Thank you and I'm proud to co-sponsor.

Thank you, Alderman Knudsen.

Any other members of the body? Alderman Kaplan.

Thank you, Madam President.

I too rise and support this.

I grew up in Baytown, Texas, right outside Houston and there was a Jewish family that lived directly across the street from us.

And one day there was a burning cross placed on their front lawn.

That burning cross was placed on their front lawn because Mr.

Mani, a Jewish attorney, was advocating for the rights of the African-American community.

So here is a Jewish man standing up for other people who are also experiencing extreme discrimination.

He was doing that because he understood discrimination himself.

So our planet, if it ends, it will be because of people warring with each other just because of their beliefs or their looks.

It's just ludicrous, it's crazy.

So thank you for speaking up and it's our duty to always, always speak up.

Thank you, Madam President.

Thank you, Alderman Kaplan.

The chair recognizes Alderman Villegas.

Thank you, Madam President.

I stand to be associated with this resolution as well.

And I appreciate my colleague from the 50th Ward bringing this up.

When I was reading the resolution, it was mind boggling to see that anti-Semitic incidents have increased by 430% in Illinois, 430% in Illinois, and hate crimes are up 71% in Chicago alone.

Let's remember that Kanye West has millions of followers around the world and his social media and his public statements greatly increased the risk of future attacks against the Jewish community.

I appreciate that this body's standing up because we have to stand up to hate wherever it rears its ugly head.

So thank you for bringing this resolution forward.

Any other members of the body that wish to speak to this resolution? Thank you again, Alderman.

We stand with you and we stand with our Jewish brothers and sisters across the city, across the region, across the state.

Thank you.

Next up, ladies and gentlemen, we have a resolution brought by Alderman Spazato and others.

The chair recognizing some school resource officers in the noble work that they did to support one of the students in our school.

The chair recognizes Alderman Talia Farrell.

Thank you, Madam President.

Madam President, reading through the resolution, the acts of these two offices before us goes well beyond the scope of their duties and responsibilities.

And because the resolution is not very lengthy, Madam President, I move that the clerk's office read the resolution into record if there are no objections.

There are no objections.

Thank you, Madam President.

Peter, can you read the resolution? Whereas in recognition of their service and appreciation for their positive community outreach, the members of this chamber are pleased to honor officer John Bauer and officer Katarina Nowakowski.

And whereas officer Bauer and officer Nowakowski, I beloved school resource officers at Foreman High School who have made it a point to help students in and outside the school.

And whereas after Foreman High School student, Omeran James tragically lost both his sister and his brother to gun violence, officer Bauer and officer Nowakowski took Omeran under their wing and became a mentor to him.

And whereas when officer Bauer found out that Omeran was not hearing back from colleges, he contacted the recruiting office at Jacksonville State University on Omeran's behalf, helping Omeran secure a spot at the school, which reduced tuition and became the first in his family to go to college.

And whereas officer Bauer and officer Nowakowski helped Omeran both physically and emotionally prepare for and get to college, including officer Bauer, driving him the 11 hours to the campus and starting a GoFundMe to help Omeran pay for college.

And whereas Omeran is not the only student that officer Bauer and officer Nowakowski have assisted during their time at Foreman High School and they have developed such a strong relationships with students that they have even met a student as he left the hospital after months of recuperation from gunshot wounds.

And whereas officer Bauer and officer Nowakowski demonstrate on a daily basis the excellent work that Chicago police officers can do all around the city of Chicago.

Now therefore, it be resolved that we, the mayor and members of the city council of the city of Chicago assembled his 14th day of December, 2022, to hereby commend officer James Bauer and officer Katarina Nowakowski for their service, express to them our heartfelt gratitude for going above and beyond the call of duty to help students at Foreman High School and extend to them our best wishes for continued growth and success.

And be it further resolved that a suitable copy of this resolution be presented to officer John Bauer and officer Katarina Nowakowski and placed on permanent record in their personnel files as a sign of our appreciation and esteem.

Thank you, sir.

The chair recognizes all the women mitts.

Thank you, Madam Chairman.

I stand here today.

We just heard a resolution on hate.

But now we are hearing a resolution on love, on caring, on being the good Samaritan that we all should be.

I stand here to share with you Omar James is a resident of the 37th war.

I really didn't put the name with the face until I saw him again.

He like, you know my grandmother.

I said, what's her name? Betty Fletcher.

Oh yeah, she works for me.

Now you got that one.

So this family, have endured a lot of tragedy.

I was there when his sister, Amara, passed away that gunshot through the house as she was there sitting on the couch.

This family have went through tremendous tragedy.

But Omar, Amara, you have exemplified some strength.

I saw the courage in you, the determination to move forward, to share what your brother and sister could not get a chance to do that opportunity.

You are determined to do it.

But for our officers, we are determined to do it.

But for our officers, there's not enough thank yous that I could even give you.

As I shared to you, this young man would not have had that opportunity if you had not opened up your heart to give it to him.

You didn't look at him as another young black man that's not gonna be anything.

You look beyond that to say, what can I do to help him, even though he's not white, he's black.

He wouldn't be in college.

Maybe if I'd have took him down there, I might have had a little problem.

I think race has a issue here.

And you can see if you just open up your heart and cross that line a little bit, we can help some of these children.

And that's what you're doing.

You're doing that by not being that police officer in the school, talking to them as if they are criminals already.

No, you are reaching out to them as a human being and mother or daughter or your niece or nephew.

That's the way you're treating them.

That's why they're so open to you.

You take off that badge of your regular duty of a police officer and give to them the other side.

I am so grateful to you for being that mother there for him, being that mentor for him.

Who would have ever thought someone would take time out to care for a young man and take him to college, make a call and still mentoring him today.

That's why he's sitting here.

And you can see him every time you look at his face, if you just talk to him, he got a smile that's out of sight.

He's just grinning from ear to ear.

You see nothing but the whitening teeth.

That's because he's happy.

Ain't nothing wrong with being happy, you all.

Nothing wrong with that.

Happy make you feel good.

It make things work inside and take away all the negativities that you might experience in your body when you smile.

So you just keep on smiling.

You keep on working with them and we will keep working with you as well.

So thank you so much.

I was very honored to have given you that certificate.

Probably didn't even know who I was giving it to but wanted to help because that's what I am.

I'm a giver and a helper.

I love to be able to do that.

And that's what the office, that's why I can recognize something different here.

And that's what we all should be here in the world.

Something different, helping each other.

That's what the world is all about.

So let me say thank you again from the bottom of my heart for all of the residents and all of them who can't say thank you.

Your story should be told more.

I saw it on the news but it was only short news breaking story but it should be one that should be shared where everybody know that people need to help each other.

And it don't matter what color you are.

It don't matter where you came from.

It don't matter what you think but why don't you try to get to them and try to help them.

So thank you so much, Madam Mayor.

And congratulations to you all and to the principal over there.

We appreciate you for being here with us today.

And I know you should be very proud of those officers there.

Officer Barr and Officer Katharina who have worked so hard in the school to make it a better place and a more pleasant place for children to learn.

So thank you so much.

Thank you, Alderman Mitts.

The chair recognizes Alderman Cardona.

Thank you, Madam President.

I stand before you supporting this resolution.

It's very, it's overwhelming to see one of my, which is one of the high schools in my ward for him in high school.

One of the kids had the support from the SROs from Officer Barr and Nikosky.

I met, funny story, I met Amaran back in 2020 where we're doing a food drive with for him in high school.

And Prince Vascomia who was there in the box, we had a conversation and he told me what he went through with his sister and brother.

And it broke my heart, but I saw something in this kid like that I don't see in any other thing.

Yes, he played football and yes, I had a conversation, real short conversation with him.

I think I told him, no matter what happens, you're here focused on trying to get recruited and so forth.

Behold, I did not know that they were passing him up.

And Officer Barr and his partner came and stepped in and it tells you about the program of the SROs in Chicago Public Schools.

You have SROs who do care, police officers are there.

And from what I see, when I go to form in high school, I come visit Prince Vascomia more than often.

I see how the kids surround themselves with the two officers.

And they mentor them, they give them advice and it's something that it's well needed in our Chicago Public Schools, especially our high schools.

But I'm so happy, I did not know that Officer Barr was helping and his partner helping him to get a college.

Officer Barr came to my office, he told me and I was just shocked that he actually got him into Jackson State University.

So I'm here to tell you, I'm around, keep going.

Like I told you last time, make your family proud and make your neighborhood proud.

And you also made those three people very, what they do in life is what helping you and getting to you to succeed.

Thank you, Madam Mayor.

Thank you, Alderman Cardona.

The chair recognizes Alderman Napolitano.

Thank you, Madam President.

I too rise in support of this resolution to Officer Bauer and Officer Nowakowski.

Thank you for putting that uniform on every day.

Thank you for protecting us.

Thank you for opening your heart.

Chicago police officers sometimes get a bad rap.

It's unfortunate.

Not a lot of people see what's behind that vest or what's in your mind or how much you love the city of Chicago and are willing to serve the city of Chicago.

Not just as a police officer, but as a brother and a brother.

As a sister, as a mother, or as a father.

You took an individual under your wing, both of you, and you helped them out.

And that goes a long way.

And I know you didn't do it for any other purpose than you're just good people.

And that means the world to us.

Mariano, embrace this, make us proud, play it forward and go get them.

Thank you, Madam President.

Alderman Napolitano.

The chair recognizes Alderman Curtis.

Thank you, Madam President.

I too rise to support this resolution.

I wanna personally thank both officers for giving him a new, you have awarded him a new lease on life.

I don't even know you.

And this story was just awesome.

Now you have to go out there.

Everyone has a purpose in life.

Now you have to go out there and do the same thing that they have done for you.

Again, officers, I wanna thank you.

You didn't have to do it, but you did it anyway.

It should be more, more people like you.

Thank you so much, Madam President.

Thank you.

Thank you, Alderman Curtis.

The chair recognizes Alderman Nugent.

Thank you, Madam Chair.

I too rise in support of this resolution.

Officer Bauer and Officer Nowakowski, I love what you did here.

And I think this is such a great example of how we can help others in our community.

And I love that you are also in the 16th district, which services the 39th Ward.

So thank you for all you do.

But I also wanna honor Omarian here today too, because you clearly underwent tremendous tragedy in your home and instead of resting, you decided to go forward and go to school and keep moving on.

And you're a real tremendous person to watch right now.

And we're so happy for you in the 39th Ward and we wanna support you in any way we can.

And so keep doing good things.

And we're just excited to see what you do next.

So thank you.

Thank you, Madam President.

Thank you, Alderman Nugent.

Any other members of the body that wish to speak to this? Alderman Talifero.

Thank you, Madam President.

I too rise and supported his resolution.

I mean, I wanted this read into record simply because I think members of this chamber need to hear the great work that these officers, and that's John and Kathy, because I think that's what they call you over at Foreman, John and Kathy.

I think they need to hear this extraordinary work along with the principle that they're doing at Foreman.

But also I think there are thousands that are on social media that would not have had an opportunity to see the good work that they're doing.

Unfortunately, as my colleague said, that oftentimes you see the negative printed on the front page and that goes across our local media about our police officers and our police department.

And oftentimes we don't see enough of the good that they do.

And in this particular case, it's beyond good, it's great.

I was floored literally.

I had a mentoring program when I was a young police officer, but what John and Kathy are doing goes beyond what is just your basic mentorship to help see one of the students at Foreman get into college and then to drive them all the way to college goes beyond what we see our police officers doing every day.

And so I wanna thank John and Kathy for their dedication and their love for Mariam.

And Mariam, I think we've pronounced your name probably six or seven different times, but we say it out of love.

And so I wanna thank John and Kathy for just extending their heart to you to go beyond what most of us see our police officers doing.

And so keep up the good work because it is making a difference.

And even if it's making a difference in one person's life, that's a person that you will see flourish in the future because of your good work and your heart and your love for him and the principal as well.

Thank you for being here today and showing your students that you care and you love them.

Well, Mariam, I'm very proud of you.

As I had an opportunity to speak with you, I understand that you, and I thought you were still in high school.

So I asked you what grade would you, and you told me you were a freshman.

I didn't know you were a freshman in college.

But I wanna say I congratulate you being the first in your family to go to college.

You certainly could have given up hope at the loss of your brother and sister to gun violence, but you chose a different route.

And that tells me a lot about your character.

And that tells me a lot about your self-esteem and the love that you have for yourself to allow someone that doesn't necessarily look like you to mentor you, to give you advice.

And so I ask that you continue to be open about how you're feeling, how you're doing in school with John and Kathy, because just because you're in college, you can see that they have not stopped extending their love to you.

So Madam President, I wanna thank them so much, and their recognition should go well beyond on what we see in a resolution today.

But what I would like to see, I would like to see our Sun Time and Tribune and our local media, aim the camera on them and write a story about this good work that they're doing.

Madam President, I'll close with this.

Not only a few short years ago, we debated the SRO program.

We debated whether or not we need officers in our school or whether they're better served on our streets and not in our school.

I present to you and the members of this body, why I fought so hard to keep them in that school, because they are good that they're doing in this school.

We don't know where Omariya might be without their love and support.

And so I stand up very proudly to say that, we have officers that go well beyond what they're required, go well beyond the eight and a half hours that they serve every day.

They go even so far as to drive a student to his next assignment in life.

And that's college no matter what that distance may be.

We have officers that are willing to stand up and do a GoFundMe page for Alderman Talia Farrell.

I'm sorry, a GoFundMe page that slipped out.

But they're willing to stand up and do a GoFundMe page for a student that they love with all their heart.

So Madam President, even though I inject a little humor, I think it's very serious that we really put our officers on the front page of our presses to make sure that they are recognized for the great work that they do.

Thank you, Officer John and Officer Catton.

Alderman Spizzato.

Thank you, thank you, Madam President.

It's been a long time coming.

I've been trying to get this resolution for a while, but boy, am I happy we have it when we're having it.

Couldn't have been at a better time.

Couldn't have been a happier resolution at a happier time of the year, Christmas time.

So I thank you.

I also wanna thank one of my many friends in the media, John Garcia from Channel 7.

If not for John doing this story, we would not have known about O'Marian.

Everybody's name is O'Marian and John and Kathy and Florman High School.

So thank you, John, thank you for that.

Chris, you stole a little bit of my thunder about calling out the media and putting out positive stuff.

So all you listen there, you could tweet your negative at what you want about me or whatever, but let's start tweeting and getting some more positive stories out there.

This is the ultimate feel, good, great story of tragedy and happiness and you name it.

And two beautiful people, Kathy and John, a middle-aged white male, we all talked about what they are.

So he's a white male and a young lady that could be my daughter.

So awesome job that John and Kathy appreciate you.

O'Marian, we're all proud of you.

And I don't know if you all know, O'Marian's on track to be on the basketball team.

So he is at a D1 school.

So it's a little tough when you're a guy that's probably six feet tall and 150 pounds.

So it's probably a little tough to play D1, but he's working towards that amongst all the other things.

Also this summer O'Marian will be looking for a job, Mayor, all of them in mid.

So if you have anybody in need for anything, he certainly wants to stay on track.

So certainly we'd like to see him get a nice summer job.

But I just can't thank John and Kathy.

Obviously they're our friends of mine.

I only know him because I'm the Aldermen and they're the police officers.

They used to work one of my beats.

They took on this SRO job, a job that somehow, some way got to be very controversial and negative.

I don't know why it is.

And I could assure you, there's not the great story of this is, but there is many, many positive stories about SROs taking kids under their wing, looking after them.

I know I have two high schools in my ward.

One of them has SROs in it.

Excuse me guys.

Excuse me.

Excuse me.

Excuse me.

So, I have a high school in my ward and I know the SROs are well-loved over there.

So great job to both of you.

Best of wishes to O'Marian, overcome into tragedy.

I can't imagine, can't imagine would like to lose a couple of siblings.

So young, so much life ahead of them.

Just all look forward.

We're all rooting for you, John and Kathy, somehow, some way, I believe this is not going to be the last time you're going to be here.

So hopefully you get to stay at former for a while.

I don't know how much time you have left, John.

I think you had like 25 years.

So hopefully you stay another five.

You get to stay at the school.

I'm sure the principal, if he's there, he'd love to have, keep you guys.

So with that, I don't know what more to say.

My colleagues are awesome on what they said.

Just a positive, great story.

And once again, Madam President, thank you.

Thank you, John Garcia, for putting this story out there so we can all see it.

And that's about it.

Thank you very much, Madam President.

Thank you, Alderman Spazado.

I'll be brief because I think a lot of what needed to be said has been said, but I feel like this is like a parable.

We have a young man challenged in life and could have gone many directions, could have stopped his growth because of obvious despair and tragedy, but he lifted himself up and reached for the next run in the ladder.

We have two police officers who saw what was happening in this young man's life and went above and beyond the call of duty to make sure that he was taken care of, that he had mentorship and love and support at a time when he desperately needed it most.

And then, which I've never heard of before, helped him apply for school and then made sure not only that he got to school by driving him there, but made sure that he had the resources that he needed to be successful.

That's a remarkable story.

And too often, as you've heard from members of this body, our officers are vilified.

They're painted with one broad brush.

But I know, and you know, that every single day, there are officers across the city, in every district, every unit, every watch, who are doing these kinds of acts of kindness, going above and beyond, connecting with people in the community and showing their true humanity.

So I wanna thank you for being a shining example of what our officers actually are.

And I joined the call of Alderman Talley, a federal and Alderman Spizzato to say, media, please tell that story.

Because these are stories that are happening every single day across our city.

Our officers are heroes.

And importantly, they're our neighbors.

They're our brothers or sisters, their fathers, their mothers, and they need to be treated with the respect that they deserve for running towards danger to protect us.

So officers, thank you so much on behalf of a grateful city and on behalf of a Marian.

And I also wanna talk about the principles.

The principles has been on the front lines for the last couple of years.

They never left their buildings when we want to remote learning.

Because I had to make sure that teachers were supported, that the cafeteria workers, the janitors, the security officers, that the buildings were ready were when students came back.

So principal Escamilla, I just wanna say, thank you, sir, for doing what you're doing, for making sure that your school is strong and standing up in the face of very, very difficult circumstances, our principals across the system at the elementary school level and the high school level deserve our thanks for everything that they've done to make sure that our students were still able to be, to learn, to be nurtured and fed in a safe and welcoming environment.

So it is like a parable where we see all the parts of the goodness of the world coming together.

Bless you, happy holidays and thank you for your service.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Yeah.

Okay.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

This is Alderman Mitchell.

Madam President, I move passage of this resolutions in the Honorable.

Hearing no objection, so ordered.

I now move a return to the regular order of business.

Hearing no objection, so ordered.

Next up, ladies and gentlemen, is communications.

Madam Clerk.

Reports and communications from the mayor, communications from our honor, the mayor, to the honorable, the city council of city Chicago.

Ladies and gentlemen, request the commissioner of planning and development.

I transmit here with an ordinance authorizing the execution of a TIF redevelopment agreement with M-HUB for the renovation of the property located at 240 North Ashton Avenue.

Fable consideration is ordinance be appreciated.

Very true years.

Lori Lightfoot, mayor, for the committee on finance.

Ladies and gentlemen, the request the commissioner of planning and development.

I transmit here with ordinances, authorizing the sixth amendment to the Bronzeville TIF redevelopment project and plan.

Your favor consideration this ordinance will be appreciated.

Very true years.

Lori Lightfoot, mayor, for the committee on finance.

Ladies and gentlemen, the request the commissioner of planning and development I transmit here with ordinances, authorizing the first amendment to the Mars and Wells TIF redevelopment project and plan.

Your favor consideration of these ordinances will be appreciated.

Very true years.

Lori Lightfoot, mayor, for the committee on finance.

Ladies and gentlemen,...

the commissioner of planning and development I transmit here with ordinances, authorizing the third amendment to the 43rd and Cottage Grove TIF redevelopment project and plan.

Your favor consideration of the ordinances will be appreciated.

Very truly yours.

Lori Lightfoot mayor for the committee on finance.

Ladies and gentlemen, request the commissioner of planning and development I transmit here with an ordinance authorizing execution of an amendment to the administrative service agreement with summer summer core.

Very concerned to this ordinance be appreciated very truly yours Lori Lightfoot Mayor for the committee on finance.

Ladies and gentlemen request the commission of housing I transplant here with an ordinance authorizing issuance of financial assistance for the current row square affordable housing development, your favorite consideration this ordinance be appreciated very truly yours Lori Lightfoot Mayor for the committee on finance.

Ladies and gentlemen request the commissioner of housing I translate here the ordinance authorizing the issue and the financial assistance for the C 40 Garfield green affordable housing development, available considerations ordinance be appreciated very truly yours Lori Lightfoot Mayor for committee on finance.

Ladies and gentlemen, I request the budget director turns right here with a fun 925 amendment, your favorite consideration this ordinance be appreciated very truly yours, Lori Lightfoot Mayor referred the committee on budget and government operation.

Ladies and gentlemen request the commissioner of planning and development I transplant here within ordinance authorizing a classic speed tax incentive status for property located at 4837 South kedsey Avenue, if a favor, if a research of this ordinance be appreciated very to the years Lori Lightfoot Mayor for the committee on economic capital and technology development.

Ladies and gentlemen the classic Chicago Commission on human relations I transmit here with together with all of them and Rodriguez Sanchez Ramirez Rosa Martin had an ordinance, an opinion, a pending municipal code regarding bodily autonomy for protections, you fair and fair will concern sources we appreciate it very truly yours Lori Lightfoot Mayor for the command health and human relations.

Ladies and gentlemen I transmit here with resolution supporting the human rights movement in Iran, Iran your favorite concern to this result resolution be appreciated very true years Lori Lightfoot Mayor for the committee on health and human relations.

Ladies and gentlemen at the request of Commissioner planning and development, I transmit here with an ordinance authorizing the sale city on property located at 4232 South well street under the Jason neighbors land acquisition program, they will consider to the ordinance we appreciate it very truly yours Lori Lightfoot Mayor for the command housing and real estate.

Ladies and gentlemen, classic Commissioner planning and development, I transmit here with an ordinance correcting the bidders address for the sales the own property under the Jason neighbors land acquisition program, you fair and fair will concern sources we appreciate it very truly yours Lori Lightfoot Mayor for the command housing and real estate.

Ladies and gentlemen at the request of the Commissioner of assets information services to transmit here with an ordinance authorizing the execution of a lease agreement, Cumberland acquisition LLC, if you have a consideration this ordinance be appreciated very truly yours Lori Lightfoot Mayor for the command housing and real estate.

Ladies and gentlemen the classic Commissioner business affairs and consumer protection and transfer here the ordinance, mending the municipal code regarding the licensing of urban farms and community gardens your favorite consideration this ordinance be appreciated, very true years, Lori Lightfoot Mayor for the committee on license and consumer protection.

Ladies and gentlemen the question of planning and development I transfer with an orth ordinance authorizing execution of an intergovernmental agreement, the regional transportation authority regarding the Kimball station area curb management and mobility plan.

Your favorite consideration this ordinance be appreciated very truly yours Lori Lightfoot Mayor for the committee and transportation and public way.

Ladies and gentlemen the request of the Commissioner planning and development I transmit here with an ordinance correcting a measurement era of a zoning map amendment ordinance, your favorite consideration this ordinance be appreciated very truly yours Lori Lightfoot Mayor for the committee on zoning landmarks and building standards.

Ladies and gentlemen, I reappointed Charles K Newsom as a member of a special service area number 61 the Hyde Park Commission for a term effective immediately and expiring January 15 2025 your favorite consideration this amendment will be appreciated very truly yours Lori Lightfoot Mayor for the command economic capital technology development.

Ladies and gentlemen I translate here with appointments the urban forestry advisory board your favorite consideration these appointments will be appreciated very two years, Lori Lightfoot Mayor for the command environmental protection and energy.

Ladies and gentlemen I transmit here with appointments the Chicago plan Commission, they will concertions appointments be appreciated very truly yours.

Lori Lightfoot Mayor for the committee on zoning landmarks and building standards.

Ladies and gentlemen I've designated Brian H Sanchez as the chair of the zoning board of appeals concurrent with his current term is member effective immediately your favorite consideration this appointment will be appreciated very truly yours, Lori, Lori Lightfoot Mayor for the committee on zoning landmarks and building standards.

I city clerk Anna Valencia hereby informed the city council the following document was filed in my office amended redline and extension tax increment financing redevelopment plan and project.

I city clerk Lindsay also informed the city council that all those matters were considered by the city council the regular meeting held on November 16 required by state statute be published and Booker pamphlet form of one and more newspapers were published in pamphlet form on December 20 22 by being printed in full text and printed pamphlet copies the Journal of proceedings city council of the Chicago.

I city clerk Lindsay also informed the city council that the ordinances authorizing the position of tax levies approval of year 2023 budget and execution of service provider agreements for special service areas numbers 457 1618 1921 dash 2016 2526 3132 3438 for 4445 5154 556 616 of course 971 7179 for pass the City Council November 16 2022 and requested to be published in special pamphlet were published in special pamphlet form on December 8 2022.

I city clerk Lindsay also transmit here with the following miscellaneous communications reports, requiring city council action, studying classification of particular areas referred to the committee on zoning landmarks and building standards claims against the city of Chicago which referred to the city council of finance correction September 21 2022 City Council Journal proceedings referred to committee on committees and roles, your honor that concludes reports and communications mayor and other city officers.

Thank you, Madam Clerk next up committee reports.

Chairman Wagus back the meeting on finance, thank you, Madam President reporting for the city councils committee on finance which met on December 12 2022.

This is a recommendation recommending a proposed ordinance regarding the designation of municipal depositories of the city of Chicago and Chicago Board of Education.

If there's no one wishing to speak on the side of my move path, move to concur with the committee's favorable recommendation by a roll call vote.

The meeting is now open, please refresh.

Okay, schedule out.

I will now take a voice vote.

Those who have not voted hit refresh and hit submit all the men Mitchell.

I didn't come through.

There it is.

Alderman barker will take a boss voice vote today.

Alderman barker is a yes.

Alderman Coleman.

Yes, I'm in Coleman is a yes, Alderman Curtis.

Yeah.

Alderman Curtis is a yes.

Alderman Cito Lopez.

Alderman Knudsen.

Not this chair.

Okay, the voting is now close.

I'm not sure if I'm going to go on the motion for reconsideration.

Madam president I move to reconsider the vote.

All those in favor of the motion for reconsideration signify by saying I all those opposed say nay.

The nays have it the motion for reconsideration defeated German way to spec to you.

I'm not sure if I'm going to go on the motion to reconsider the vote.

I'm not sure if I'm going to go on the motion to accommodate everyone.

And make sure everybody's able to speak to this if they wish.

But item 12 is a communication recommending the proposed ordinance regarding the authority to enter into and execute the designation.

Of the transit facility improvement area for the implementation of the red line extension project.

I'm going to go on the motion to reconsider the vote.

And I would like to open the floor for people to speak on this before I move passage by the role.

Before I move passage, the chair recognizes all the women now Austin.

Thank you, Madam President.

I'm a bill and myself and others have worked tirelessly for the red line extension.

Not for anything for us for self gratification.

But for the people that we represent on the far south side.

I've stood here many years and say that we are the city limits.

There's no place else to go but to Riverdale.

When you get out to the far south side, Blue Island and Elsa.

To hinder the individuals that we represent on the far south side from any opportunities that the north side the central side of Chicago is unfair.

Now that we have an opportunity to open the doors for those that live that far south.

When you talk about 134.

That's quite a distance that you have to take so many changes in order to get to your destination.

So I'm going to shortly limit my speech.

I don't want to run out of oxygen.

But to ask you, just consider those where now we have one less ward on the far south side, where I had to give up my ward because of the less numbers and people on the on the far south side.

But for you that have had years of opportunities.

Allow us to have those opportunities as well.

So Max and my colleagues to please support this endeavor that on the bill and I have fought for by no mean for 12 years and more.

Thank you, Madam President, you all the women Austin the chair recognizes Ottoman bill.

Thank you, Madam President.

I too rise to ask my colleagues to support this red line tip.

I think it's very important that everyone, everyone knows that this was a promise to our community over 40 something years ago.

Almost 50.

And I remember as a kid growing up, talking about the red line extension that was the buzz throughout the entire community that people were saying, where we, when are we going to get ours.

When are we going to get the promise that is being fulfilled to our community.

And like all the men Austin stated, we fought to get this going, years ago, under Mayor daily.

And then Mayor Emmanuel kept the ball rolling.

And I'm glad that Mayor, you saw fit to create this tip to continue the momentum of this red line extension.

Our community has been this invested disenfranchised and disconnected from this city for a very long time for a very long time.

And so now, to be in phase five or phase seven of the federal process to get to construction, the next phase is engineering and design.

And then the last phase is construction.

And so it's very important that you all understand that our community has been disconnected.

And we're looking forward to getting this connection, some 50 years later.

And I'm just hoping that I'm around long enough to see it.

And, you know, it's just, it's really really disheartening that we are even talking about this today.

And they're talking about the fact that certain communities don't get the same access from CTA as other communities.

And so this is another opportunity for everybody to right the wrong.

The turn the ship around and put it in the right direction to make sure our community gets their fair share.

And so I employ everybody to look deep into your heart and understand that this is important to our community.

That's important to the city.

And it's important that we finally fulfill the promise that was made over 50 years ago.

Thank you, Madam President.

Thank you, Alderman Beall.

The chair recognizes Alderman Villegas.

Thank you, Madam President.

I too stand the support of this, this red line extension TIF.

We need to do more investments in public transportation, because we're going to be a world class city.

We need to make sure that all communities are connected.

We take a look at other countries and their public transportation we're way behind, way behind.

We got to make these investments.

I want to make sure that CTA with these funds are incorporating as many communities as possible.

We heard that the veteran businesses will get an opportunity.

And before that CTA is also advocating to the FRA and FHWA that there needs to be more people from the community where this project is going to impact the participating on this project, not the bare minimum of 25 and five or 26 and six.

Remember this is a program that's going to be with disadvantaged business enterprise, which means that your typical MWBE won't participate.

CTA has got to be creative and challenge FRA and FHWA to make sure that everyone is participating on this project.

This is a mega project.

One, almost $3 billion worth of construction is going to be occurring.

Three billion, we got to make sure that there's apprenticeships that are participating on this to the maximum.

So again, I support this project we need to do more investment in public transportation.

But again, we want to make sure that every community is participating.

Thank you, Madam President.

Thank you, Ottoman Villegas.

Chair recognizes all the women of Barca.

Thank you, Madam Chair.

I rise in support of this, because I wrote the orange line today to to City Hall.

And this is one of the few ways that I can get here downtown, because I really don't prefer to actually drive.

And the communities in this area don't have that option.

They don't have the option to access the rest of our city.

And so it is an issue of equity and fairness.

And really, our infrastructure, our public transit is the backbone and skeleton of our city and so I would urge others to vote yes as well.

Thank you, all the women on the head of members of the body that wish to speak to this matter.

The chair recognizes all of an urban.

What I mean.

I've done anything with what what.

I think the reality here to have a portion of our city disconnected from everybody else from rail transit I think has been a travesty since the system has been put up, I, I do believe that this is the right move.

I know that some of us may object to how it's being financed.

But we have to also remember that as a city.

This is best for all of Chicago.

There are times where funds come from one community to help another.

And there's nothing wrong with that because at the end of the day, as, as a former CPS chair Michael Scott's would always tell us a rising tide lifts all boats.

It's an opportunity to lift a community group of communities on the far south side, which will help lift us all connecting individuals to jobs that may be on the other side of town imagine one person said she takes her two hours to take a bus to another bus to a train to another bus, just to go to school.

And that should not be in a world class city, such as ours so today I hope that we all can find it in our hearts to pass the revenue, so that this can happen for those residents that live in our garden that are literally, I won't say trapped but transit star.

And that can transform the rest of the city of Chicago.

I also talked about how the blue line in the red line and other pieces by transportation system need to be kept.

We as a city have to work together.

As we, as I recall, the meeting I brought my daughter to because I didn't have a babysitter she was still in a carriage to pass the money for the red, the purple line on the north side.

And I said we take that same vigor and energy to help the transit star communities, south of 95th Street on the red line.

And again, as all the men of our cast stated this is an issue of equity.

It is not equal when a part of our city does not have the same access that the rest of us do, even though we're on the west side of Chicago, we would be wrong not to support, helping our brothers and sisters on the far south side, get to get the transit opportunities that they deserve, and I would like to definitely stand and support.

And I would also like to stand and support this, you know, for me, this is a, this is a, this is a very important issue.

Thank you, Burnett.

Thank you.

Thank you very much, Madam President.

I also like to stand in support of this, you know, for me, this is a situation of social justice.

Some of us don't recognize when they first started putting the trains in, in the city of Chicago.

They stopped in certain areas for certain reasons.

And they also took out stops in certain areas for certain reasons.

If you look at all of the public housing around the city of Chicago in the middle of the public housing areas, you can't get to the train from a way, they took out those stops purposely to stop black folks from getting on the trains with other people and make other folks feel safe but limiting the other people from having the opportunity to get jobs and resources.

I want to thank the mayor and everyone else that have been involved for allowing me to get a train stop over on Damon and later.

I'm trying to get one over in Cabrini Green on division in Orleans, because there's not a train stop between Chicago Avenue and North Avenue.

You want people to work, you want to make it mandatory that they work but you don't want to get them no transportation to go to work.

That's crazy.

Now we're talking about the south side, and we're talking about money coming from different communities.

I'm going to say this more money come from my area than any other area in the city of Chicago to help everyone else's area.

And we allow that to happen, because we're all in this together.

The reason why some folks are going to other communities, because we neglect their community.

Guess what, they're going to keep coming to your community.

But if you fulfill opportunities for them to get ahead in their neighborhood.

They don't even have to come to your neighborhood, because they have all of the amenities and resources in their neighborhood, where they don't even have to go downtown or go anywhere else to be able to have a good time and feel safe or whatever the case may be, you know, so we need in order for this city to get ahead.

In order for this city to stabilize in order for this city to be able to be safer.

We have to give everyone all around the city opportunities, so they can recognize that they are all a part of the city so I support this 100%.

Thank you.

Thank you, Alderman Burnett the chair recognizes all of them in vassals.

Thank you, President, and thank you to everyone who spoke, especially our colleague, I'll remember net.

I think we know historically there's a reason why transportation is such a problem, we shouldn't live in a world class city where there are transportation deserts that should not be allowed to exist.

And we know that it does because in the inception and creation of the city, it was intentional to segregated.

So to be able, and I'd like to add my voice as a north side voice that we continue to build upon that.

I know that when people who want to develop and create housing, they come and look at the north side because they go there's public transportation, there's ways for people to get to their jobs, and there's not enough creation of that housing on the south and west sides, because the infrastructure is not there when it comes to public transportation.

And so I'm in full support as well.

As someone who earlier this year was calling for President Carter from CTA to come speak and writing resolutions, a well ordinance to try to make sure there was accountability for the city.

I also want to commend you mayor for putting forth the executive order, requiring quarterly hearings from CTA and everyone else because it's not that any of us want to impede any of the progress but we do want accountability that we know if the funds are there, that the work is also there, and so to be able to check in with them as things move forward is something we're in full support of.

And we want to make sure I disagree slightly with my colleague, Mr.

Burnett, we want folks to come from the south, from south up north, we want folks from north side to go south, we want people to travel all around the city to understand all the beautiful neighborhoods and communities that we have here, and you don't get that to happen without the proper transportation to do so.

So I'll be proud to vote in support of this and ask our colleagues to do the same.

Thank you, Madam President.

And Vasquez the chair recognizes ultimate with spot on.

Thank you so much, Madam President.

I will also be brief I feel like we could use more than one North side voice on the matter and to stand in support because I, I know from the day I first sit foot had an address in the city.

I've never lived less than a half mile from a CTA station.

You know, I think that is true for most people who live on the north side of the city, the notion that we've got folks 130 who live four miles easy.

No one would accept that and yet that's been the acceptable reality for nine on 50 years in the city more than that.

I'm glad for this conversation I'm glad for the ordinance, my colleague ultimate urban said earlier that folks have said that a rising tide lifts all ships and I wish I wish that was always true, because I feel like a rising tide in Chicago has traditionally left half our communities drowning.

And that's what we're changing to do, we've got a tide of equity, moving through the city today and that's what we get to vote on, and hopefully see a better reality for a lot of folks who've been really left out and we sometimes say for certain reasons and I'm glad also we called out what those for certain reasons, really are.

And we're addressing that today too.

Thank you, Madam Chair.

Thank you all.

The chair recognizes all the men sick to Lopez.

Thank you, Madam Chair.

First, if I can be recognized as a yes vote on the first item on the finance committee I had to step down for for a minute.

And also, I like to rise in support of these critical.

Critical investment for the south side.

And I think some of our colleagues have mentioned, when we vote in favor of public infrastructure for the north side I think that we have the same responsibility to amend the runs that have been historic in the city of Chicago, and I think that's an opportunity to do just that.

There is indeed many issues of equity, I hear some of the concerns that have been brought up, especially when it comes to the use of tip money.

I think that I think the public transportation, when it comes to the south side, especially in a time like this for workers to be able to come to the city for us to continue to generate employment across the city of Chicago.

This is a fundamentalist a forward.

I hear the issue of funding.

The federal government have fronted, I believe $2.1 billion, and of course the responsibility to match those funds.

I think the city of Chicago definitely must also urge the state of Illinois to help us to bring more resources in the line.

I agree with that.

We also got to talk about how we help those small homeowners who are struggling right now with property taxes.

We hear that.

That's what we today, and I talked to Chairman Wagens back to discuss a hearing so that we can address the issue right now in property taxes are hitting really hard, especially the Latinx community.

We got to discuss better ways to address that we're proposing perhaps reinstated the Office of Tax Protection, so that we can discuss the inequities within the property tax system.

That is indeed something that we also want to collaborate with Corporation Council, so that we can go to the state of Illinois with an agenda of how we can match these funds we can bring more revenue to the city of Chicago, but we cannot vote down this kind of projects on the sake of, especially when we bring up issues of equity.

So I would like to work with administration on how we can discuss the issue of property taxes.

And funding should be funding this kind of projects, we need to create public infrastructure in areas of need in the city of Chicago, and we also must discuss how we address the inequities within the property tax system, and we must discuss this with the state of Illinois.

So I'm rising support of this project, I look forward to working with our colleagues and City Council on how we discuss this use of tip dollars to address the inequities, not only for public infrastructure, but also to property tax small for property taxes that are hitting really hard for Latinx community, I do think that we can do both.

And again, a rising support of this project and I urge your colleagues to address inequities in the city of Chicago, and let's do it today.

This is a good opportunity.

Thank you again.

Thank you, Alderman.

The chair recognizes Alderman Tony.

Thank you, Matt, Madam Mayor.

I wanted to dovetail a little bit on all the message all those comments about diverse funding sources, as one who was on the council, when President Obama signed the federal funding for the red purple line.

There was no such thing as a relative.

Normally these projects are 50% plus federal 25% state, and then 25% local match.

And we did not have a state budget during that period.

The state did give us an opportunity to establish the relative, which this actually happened.

Now we're again, on the south extension which I'm 100% for, but as all the message a Lopez says we this is an act, a region economic boost this is not just the city of Chicago, and the county seems to be lost on this I don't know, you know, where their fund their economic development funds are, and the state, we, you know, they just you know in my opinion they passed the buck to the, the TIF and the local property taxes so I think we need to do more when asked about this during the hearing.

We're working on it we're talking.

The old saying around politics is talk is cheap.

We need to make sure they're at the table both the county and the state to help in this expansion because you know what, hopefully, I think the red purple line is in budget, but God knows what happens over the next 10 15 years with inflation the way it goes, we need partners at the county and the state to make this a regional economic engine, but I am totally in support of it.

Thank you.

And Tony the chair recognizes Alderman Knudson.

Thank you, Madam Mayor, and I'd like to be recognized as the yes vote on the first item on the Finance Committee I'll keep this this short I'm super in favor of the red line extension.

I think it's it's a historic move for the city that also helps assist other ordinances that we pass like the connected communities ordinance it's going to add equity to the city it's going to add a dynamic of affordability and it helps modernize us as we as we work going forward, taking advantage of this federal funding is an incredible source for the city right now and I just think it's great.

So that's all, I'll be a yes vote.

Thank you.

Chairman wegas back back to you, Madam President.

I just like to say a few words to Alderman Beal hold on to your venture card.

So, you can write it instead of just seeing it.

And then all the men are and if you guys remember all them and urban's daughter slept through that whole meeting which I couldn't believe, but that's how that's how great the discussion was.

But I'd like to make note about what this is about it's about fairness and equity.

President Carter talked a little bit about it in his brief comments during the committee meeting.

And the people that presented Leah Mooney from CTA Tim Jeffries from DPD did a fantastic job working with us to move this ahead to present the issues for everyone that hasn't been living it over the last few decades.

I'd like to read a quick quote from somebody that I think kind of encompasses what everyone's been saying here and that's Cheryl Johnson, and I've had this in my file for quite a while.

She lives in all gout gardens and she said if the city moves on the red line extension.

What a great benefit it would be for this area, we could go all the way from the Riverdale community area, all the way to Loyola to Howard to Rogers Park, one stop straight.

How convenient would that be for opportunities and accessibility to other opportunities, and that's a huge issue for this area.

And I think she, she does encompass what everybody has been working on for so many decades.

And again, overall, this is about fairness and equity.

I'm glad to see this administration has moved this forward with the city council, and I hope to make sure that we can continue that work as we, as we vote, not just on these items but to move this process forward in a reasonable and timely fashion so that those people that live on the south side can enjoy what the rest of us do every day.

So, with that, Madam President, I move passage by the first most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance report and corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider, with the exception of all the women dowel wishing to be recorded as no.

With that exception and hearing no further objection.

So order.

Madam President, we had five items on this red line.

The second one is item number 13 this is a communication recommending a proposed ordinance regarding the authority to enter into and execute the approval of the redevelopment plan for the red line extension redevelopment project area, the item received favorable approval and equity with the exception of all the women dowel.

If there's no one wishing to speak I move passage by the first most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance report and corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider, hearing no objection, and with the one objection noted, so order.

Item 14 is a communication recommending a proposed ordinance regarding the authority to enter into and execute the designation of the red line extension redevelopment project area as tax increment allocation, redevelopment project area.

The item received favorable approval by the committee with the exception of Alderman Dow.

If there's no one wishing to speak on this, I move passage by the first most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance report and the corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

One objection noted, no further objections being heard.

So item 15 is a communication recommending a proposed ordinance to enter into and execute the adoption of the tax increment allocation financing funds project costs within the red line extension project.

This item received favorable approval with the exception of Alderman Dow in the committee.

I move passage by the first most favorable roll call vote with committee on finance report and corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

With the one objection noted, no others so ordered.

Item 16 is a communication recommending a proposed ordinance regarding the authority to enter into and execute an intergovernmental development agreement with the Chicago transit authority for use of tax increment financing funds for the red line expansion project in the amount of $959 million.

The item received favorable approval by the committee with the exception of Alderman Dow.

So I move passage by the first most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance report and corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider with the exception of Alderman Dow voting now.

With the objection and exception noted, I hear no further objections so ordered.

Thank you, Madam President.

All right, ladies and gentlemen, moving back to item number two.

Vegas back if I may, I just want to say congratulations to the far south side.

It's a long, long, long time.

It's absolutely needed.

It gives us the opportunity to take advantage of historic federal dollars.

I want to say thank you to the Biden administration for recognizing that there are these big mega projects that need federal funding.

And this is one of the things that we need this is one of them.

And I look forward to ribbon cutting, groundbreaking, whatever comes next.

But I also want to say a special thank you and shout out to the folks in Alcott Gardens who have been disconnected and cut off as Alderman Abil has said for far too long.

Thank you.

All right, Madam President, moving to item number two or back to item two.

This is a communication recommending a proposed ordinance regarding the authority to enter into and execute an intergovernmental agreement with the Chicago Park District to provide tax increment financing funds for the construction of a park with the new Park District headquarters facility, a field house, multi-purpose community rooms, outdoor sport and play site amenities at 4800 Southwestern Avenue and the 14th ward and the amount of $10 million.

Unless there's someone that wishes to speak on this item, I move passage by the first most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance report and corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

Hearing no objection, so ordered.

Madam President, item three is a communication recommending a proposed ordinance regarding the authority to enter into and execute a redevelopment agreement with Chicago Cooperative DBA Chicago Market, a community co-op lease tenant with Chicago Transit Authority for tax increment financing funds for the rehabilitation and operation of the historic Gerber building at 4620 North Broadway as a full service grocery store and the 46th ward and the amount of $5.8 million.

I believe Alderman Capelman wishes to make a statement but I move passage by the first most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance report and corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider and in the committee, this received favorable approval with the exception of, I believe Alderman Lopez and more.

The chair recognizes Alderman Capelman.

Thank you, Madam President.

At one point in time, the census tract where this business is located was in the 95th percentile for violent arrest.

So I wholeheartedly support this project and because of that, I do have a financial interest.

So I will abstain under rule 14.

Thank you, Alderman Capelman.

Thank you, Madam President.

Any other members wish to speak to this? There's a motion hearing no further objection.

So ordered.

Thank you, Madam President.

Item four is a communication recommending a proposed ordinance regarding the authority to enter into and execute a redevelopment agreement with 4,300 Roosevelt LLC and provision of tax increment financing funds for assistance in the construction of facilities and a parking area at 4,300 West Roosevelt Road and 4,301 West Fifth Avenue and the 24th Ward and the amount of $8 million.

Unless someone wishes to speak, I move passage by the first most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance report and the corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

Hearing no objections, so ordered.

Madam President, item five is a communication recommending a proposed ordinance regarding the authority to enter into and execute the issuance and transfer of tax increment financing funds to augment the Metro realignment and 15th Street components overseen by the Chicago Department of Transportation for University of Illinois Discovery Partners Institute Project at 1501 South Well Street in the Third Ward and the amount of $85 million.

Unless someone wishes to speak on this item, I move passage by the first most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance report and corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

Hearing no objections, so ordered.

Item six is a communication recommending a proposed ordinance regarding the waiver of fees for the Chicago Board of Education and its contractors for ongoing improvements on buildings and facilities operated for public and or governmental use.

Unless someone wishes to speak on this item and move passage by the first most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance report and corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

Hearing no objections, so ordered.

Madam President, item seven is a communication recommending a proposed ordinance regarding the authority to enter into and execute an intergovernmental agreement with the Chicago Board of Education to provide tax increment financing funds for land acquisition from the Chicago Housing Authority and construction of the new near South High School at 2450 South State Street in the Third Ward and the amount of $8 million.

Unless someone wishes to speak on this item, I'm in passage by the first most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance report and corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider with the exception of all the women, Rodriguez Sanchez who would like to be recorded as voting no.

The chair recognizes first, Alderman Moore.

Hold on Chairman, I may be off base.

What item was this one? Seven.

Item seven.

Oh yeah, near South High School.

Correct.

Yeah, thank you, Chairman.

So in committee, this was the one that I voted no on.

And the reason why I voted no, as people know, I worked at the Chicago Housing Authority and I worked with the IKEs Development and the residents there.

And it's always important for me to make sure that the residents have a voice always in this matter.

That was my commitment to them when we started to plan for transformation.

And that's my commitment today.

Although I believe that CHA has a responsibility to rethink the plan for transformation and do even more units, the LAC and the CAC are in support of this.

They've provided both letters from both the Central Advisory Council and from the LAC representative at IKEs home.

As a matter of fact, the LAC president I worked with from 99 to 2008 passed on, but her daughter is that LAC president now or representative and she provided a letter and from the Central Advisory Council, they support the new school coming to 24th and State Street, Hale, IKE South, the bridge land.

So long as the remaining CHA public housing units are being built on the footprints of Hale, IKE South bridge on site, not up the street, down the street or around the corner.

That's what they wrote.

So since they supported it and that commitment is made to them, then I stand in support of this partners as well.

Thank you, Madam President.

Thank you, Alderman Moore.

And I can assure you that there was extensive engagement of the legacy IKEs residents by the CHA over many, many months.

There were tours over Don of the location, both for the school and the alternative site.

So I think that is the basis for the support that you referenced from the two letters.

Thank you.

Chair recognizes Alderman Martin.

Could you raise your hand? Yes.

I'd like to be recorded as voting no.

Thank you.

The chair recognizes, Alderman, let me go here first.

I'll call you last.

Alderman Taylor.

I'd like to be recorded as a no.

The chair recognizes Alderman Vasquez.

I'd also like to be recorded as a no.

Chair recognizes Alderman Chitra Lopez.

Thank you, I'd also like to be recorded as a no.

Any other folks before I call on Alderman Lee? The chair recognizes Alderman Lee.

Thank you, Madam President.

And to all of my colleagues, I rise in total support of this item.

I've been a lifelong resident of Chinatown and Bridgeport.

And students at my age, and actually let me tell you about my father.

My father went to Lindbloom High School from Chinatown.

For decades, yeah, hey.

Students from this area have not had a viable neighborhood option for many, many years.

Students today who are in the area that will be served by this neighborhood open enrollment high school, travel sometimes up to 90 minutes in each direction, costing them really valuable time to be involved with extracurricular activities, to do homework.

And this is a long time coming and I'm proud to be associated with it.

I know that it did not come without a lot of hard work and engagement.

And I was part of that engagement.

And I think this is going to be a wonderful addition to our area.

It will also help to tear down these barriers that we have with the Dan Ryan as well.

People cross that all the time and it no longer needs to be a barrier.

And it's going to bring our two communities, our three communities, all of our communities together because this is going to serve the near South region, which is made up of the South Loop Chinatown Bridgeport.

We have so many opportunities to have our young people especially learn to be together and relate to each other as human beings.

I know firsthand the value of that.

When my parents sent me to public school and it was life changing to be able to have that ability.

And I want that for the students in our communities and I want them to be able to do that in an open enrollment neighborhood high school.

So thank you for your leadership on this.

Thank you, Alderwoman Dowell for your leadership as well.

Thank you.

The chair recognizes Alderwoman Dowell.

Thank you, Madam President.

I want to also express my thanks to Alderman Lee for her camaraderie and partnership on this important institutional educational opportunity that we're going to put in the South Loop.

This is not just a school for Chinatown.

It is a school that will serve residents of the South Loop, residents of bronze Douglas and also residents of Bridgeport.

These are communities that have been growing over time.

The population explosion is huge.

And we have over 2000 high school students that now attend over 100 different high schools.

They have to travel outside of their communities when they should be able to go to school in their area.

I too, like you Alderman Lee went to a very diverse high school.

It was an experience for me coming from the community that I came from.

And I think that all children should be educated in that kind of environment where they can learn about different cultures, understand different perspectives and history.

It bodes well for how you grow up and become an adult.

So I was getting ready to call you Alderman.

Mayor Lightfoot, I want to thank you for your support on this.

I also want to thank CPS and the Chicago Housing Authority.

I think it's important and Alderman Moore has raised this issue.

We are gonna watch out for those residents at CHA.

The commitment is to turn back 244 units.

That commitment goes back to 2011, unfortunately, but we're gonna do that and we're well on our way.

By the end of next year, we'll have over 40% of those units built.

And the commitment, as long as I'm sitting in this seat is to make sure that those CHA residents, those promises are honored by the CHA.

So I make that commitment to you.

I'm all in on this high school.

The only reason I'm running for reelection is because I wanna do that school in addition to some other things that I wanna see happen in the ward.

But I ask for all, I understand the concerns of some of my colleagues here, but this is the right thing to do and come hell or high water, we're gonna see it to the end.

Thank you.

Thank you.

The chair recognizes Alderman Burnett.

Thank you very much, Madam President.

So I like to also rise as a supporter of this high school.

And I like to commend Alderman Lee for coming out of the gate early, fast, and getting the pulse of the community, getting to understand what the neighborhood needs, what the neighborhood wants and how they feel about it.

And I know that you did your due diligence on all sides of the issue from what you've been hearing from the outside.

And a lot of times people from the outside don't really understand what's going on on the inside.

Coincidentally, I have an issue coming up, a vote coming up for some TIF dollars and some other things to go toward some property in Cabrini-Green hosting development.

Hosting had a plan to build a certain amount of units for returning residents for Cabrini-Green to come back on that property and he had a certain amount of numbers to build.

Well, the economy changed, things changed.

Some of those things changed from townhomes to multi-family units.

He made his numbers.

Because he made his numbers, now he don't need to build on all the property anymore because he made his numbers.

So now we have two extra lots that he is not gonna build on and that CHA and the community, we're gonna do something different with it.

But the thing is, and what I'm trying to say is, with some of these developments for the returning residents and public housing, there was a commitment for a certain amount of numbers.

Initially, when they did these things, they had a plan to do a certain amount of square footage on all these properties.

But those things evolved and changed because of banking and economy and a whole bunch of other things that emerged and some of the buildings got a little larger, got bigger and now they have all this land now.

And at the same time, when you put a new school in the community, it brings up the value in the whole area, right? A new school is an economic development engine in a community.

That's why at one time I was trying to get the Obama High School open my area, not just to have the Obama High School, but I was trying to get the Obama High School to compliment the public housing and the redevelopment of mixed income housing that was in that area to attract the market rate people to live in mixed income areas with everyone else.

And it was gonna help that whole project.

So I understand how important this high school is for your community.

I know from the outside, we look at it different, but from the inside, there's a plan and there's a reason.

And the reason is is to help the community and help these developments continue to grow.

And it will help the redevelopment of the rest of the CHA property to go faster, especially now, because taxes are going up and everything else is going up, but it will help to attract more money for those developments to continue to happen.

So that's the bigger picture.

So I just wanna say that and I support this.

Thank you.

Thank you, Alderman Burnett.

Any other members of the body that wish to speak for this month? Chairman Wages back to you.

Madam President, and I apologize, Alderman Moore, I had a note there that you did vote no, you were waiting for the LAC letter and I apologize for missing that.

So Madam President, just renew my motion to move passage by the first most favor.

We'll call the vote of the committee on finance report and corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider with those exceptions.

There are no objection.

And with those exceptions noted.

Item eight is a communication recommending a proposed ordinance regarding the authority to enter into and execute the second amendment to the Kinsey Industrial Conservation Redevelopment Project regarding project completion dates and retirement of tax increment, financing fund, debt obligations.

If there's no one wishing to speak, I move passage by the first most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance report and corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

There are no objections, so ordered.

Item nine is a communication recommending a proposed ordinance regarding the authority to enter into and execute the approval of the third amendment to the Pulaski Corridor tax increment financing funds project and plan.

If there's no one wishing to speak, I move passage by the first most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance report and corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

There are no objections, so ordered.

Item 10 is a communication recommending a proposed ordinance regarding the authority to enter into and execute the designation of the third amendment expanding the Pulaski Corridor tax increment financing fund redevelopment area.

If there's no one wishing to speak, I move passage by the first most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance report and corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

There are no objections, so ordered.

Item 11 is a communication recommending a proposed ordinance regarding the authority to enter into and execute the adoption of the third amendment to the expanded Pulaski Corridor tax increment financing fund redevelopment area.

If no one is just to speak, I move passage by the first most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance report and corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

There are no objections, so ordered.

Moving on to item 17.

Item 17 is a report of cases in which judgments or settlements were entered into for the month of November, 2022, which will be placed on file with the clerk.

Items 18 and 19 consist of authorizations for the payment of various small claims against the city and denial of payment of various small claims against the city.

If there's no objection, I ask that these items be placed in the omnibus.

There are no objections, so ordered.

Item 20 consists of authorizations for the issuance of charitable solicitation, tag day permits for the American Civil Liberties Union for January 1st through March 31st, 2023.

If there's no objection, I ask that this item be placed on the omnibus.

There are no objections, so ordered.

And item 21 consists of three orders authorizing the corporation council to enter into and execute three settlements.

Item 21A is in the case of Jake Sopridge versus city of Chicago at all, number 19L2099, and the amount of $600,000.

The item received favorable approval by the committee.

If no one wishes to speak on the matter, I move passage by the first most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance report and corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

There are no objections, so ordered.

Item 21B is in the case of Alberto Wilson, individually and as parent of Roy Smart, Royal Smart, Royalty Smart Miners versus city of Chicago, number 19L8047, and the amount of $350,000.

The item received favorable approval by the committee with the exception of Alderman Lopez wishing to be recorded as voting no.

Unless someone wishes to speak on the matter, I move passage by the first most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance report and corresponding unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

There are no objections, so ordered.

Did you wish to speak, sir? The chair recognizes Alderman Lopez.

Thank you, Madam President, and good morning.

Good, excuse me, good afternoon, members of the city council.

This is a story like the next item that we are very familiar with, where we are paying to known gang members or their families because they feel that they've been victimized by us.

This is outrageous to be here yet again doing this.

This body, this city must come up with a better standard for what we're going to do with the hundreds of thousands of millions of dollars that we give away to individuals who terrorize our communities, who make victims everywhere they go.

This has to stop.

And if that means that we have to put this money aside, not for them, but for victims, let's pursue that.

Let's not continue to enrich those individuals who have no regard, no remorse, and no compassion for their communities.

I, for one, stand in opposition, not only to this item, but to the next.

And I ask my colleagues to do the same, and I would ask for this item and the next to be roll call votes, please.

Madam Clerk, please call the roll.

And Chairman Wagesbeck, you just want to give some context to make sure people know what they're voting on.

I'm sorry, Madam President, I couldn't hear you.

Would you please give a little context so that people know what they're voting on? Sure.

So item B in Alberta Wilson, on behalf of her minor children versus city of Chicago, involved the execution of a search warrant for firearms belonging to Denneke Mitterhoff at the plaintiff's residence, at Ms.

Wilson's residence.

That person, the children were present when that search warrant took place, no firearms were found there.

And the case involved the plaintiff indicating that firearms from the police officers were pointed at the children and that the search warrant had failed to go through with what its intent was.

So there was no gang banger or gang person here.

This was about the children having weapons pointed at them.

Am I correct that a seven year old handcuffed outside the rain? The children were nine, eight and six and the handcuffed child was eight years old.

Thank you.

Right, no weapons were found Madam Chairman for purposes of the facts on the case.

Madam Clerk, please open up the e-voting.

Thanks Ariel.

The voting is now opened.

Please hit refresh and submit your vote.

Thank you.

Alderman C.

Burke.

Alderman Berca.

Alderman Berca is a yes.

Alderman Burke.

Okay.

Alderman Burke.

Yeah, you want to take a voice vote.

Alderman Burke is no.

We'll get you some support there.

Alderman Coleman.

Alderman Coleman is a yes.

Alderman Taylor.

Alderman Taylor is a yes.

Yes.

Alderman Austin.

She's not here.

Alderman Gardner.

Oh, it came through.

Alderman Capelman.

Alderman Capelman is a yes.

Alderman Silverstein.

Alderman Silverstein is a yes.

Any more I missed? Okay.

The voting is now closed.

The yeas are 39, the nays are eight.

Alderman Capelman on the motion for reconsideration.

Madam President, I move to reconsider the vote.

All those in favor of the motion for reconsideration signify by saying aye.

Those opposed say nay.

The noes, the nays have it.

The motion for consideration fails.

Chairman Wagespeck, I believe there's a call, a roll call vote on the next item as well.

And once again, I would ask that you provide a little context.

Sure.

Item 21c is in the case of Manuel Barocchio versus Chicago police officers and the city of Chicago, number 19 CV 8105 in the amount of $250,000.

The plaintiff, Barocchio and three others were arrested and charged with attempted first-degree murder in connection with the shooting incident that occurred in April of 2017.

Officer Hernandez was in the immediate area and his observations were provided the key evidence that linked the plaintiff, Mr.

Barocchio to the crime.

However, it was discovered during the criminal prosecution that plaintiff was not involved in the shooting.

Rather, he was a member of a rival gang who did run away and take cover nearby.

He spent two months in jail when the charges against him were dismissed.

And it was various contradictory statements and false reports that were written that led to the city basically recommending the settlement and the amount of $250,000.

So the item did receive favorable approval by the committee with the exception of Alderman Lopez wishing to be recorded no.

And with that, I would ask for a roll call vote as requested.

Pressure device and hit submit.

The voting is now open.

Luanda Do you want the device? Please raise your hand.

Alderman Abarca.

I've.

Alderman Abarca is a yes.

Alderman Curtis.

Yes.

Alderman Curtis is a yes.

Alderman Maldonado.

You voted yes or didn't come through.

Alderman Maldonado is a yes.

Alderman Austin got her seat.

Alderman Mitts.

Not here.

All voting that is wished.

Okay, the voting is now closed.

All right, the yays are 41.

The nays are five.

Alderman Capelman on the motion for reconsider.

Madam President, I move to reconsider the vote.

All those in favor of the motion for reconsideration signify by saying aye.

Those opposed say nay.

The motion for reconsideration fails.

Chairman Wigga-Spak.

Madam President, that concludes the report of the Committee on Finance.

Thank you, sir.

Next up, the Committee on Budget and Government Operations.

Chairman Dowell.

Thank you, Madam President and members of the City Council.

Reporting for your committee on the Budget and Government Operations, which held the committee meeting on December 1st and 7th, and a subcommittee meeting on December 7th, the committee recommends passage of the following items.

Item number one, an ordinance from the trans concerning the transfer of funds within the committee on the Budget and Government Operations for year 2020.

I move passage of this item by the first favorable roll call vote of the Committee on Finance and associated unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

There are no objections so ordered.

Item number two, an ordinance from concerning the transfer of funds within the committee on the committee and within the committee on committees and rules for the year 2022.

I move passage of this item by the first favorable roll call vote of the Committee on Finance and associated unsuccessful motions to reconsider.

There are no objections so ordered.

Item number three, a substitute ordinance concerning an amendment to the annual appropriation ordinance year 2022 within fund number 925 for the Department of Family and Support Services.

I move passage of this item by the first favorable roll call vote of the Committee on Finance and associated unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

There are no objections so ordered.

The Committee on the Budget and Government Operations held the subject matter hearing on December 1st and discussed the foreign fire insurance board expenditures and the third quarter report on the fiscal year 2022 annual appropriation.

No votes were taken.

And finally, the subcommittee on the Chicago recovery plan also met on December 7th and discussed environmental justice initiatives and community climate initiatives.

No votes were taken and that concludes my report.

Thank you, Chairman Dowell.

Next up the Committee on Economic Capital and Technology Development Chairman Villegas.

Good afternoon, Madam President and members of the City Council reporting for the Committee on Economic Capital and Technology Development.

Tuesday, December 6th, 2022, the committee held an in-person meeting and recommends passage of the following items.

Items one and two are appointments to one special service area collectively voted on by the committee members and introduced by Mayor Lightfoot during November 16th, 2022 City Council meeting.

Appointments of Yvette Leon, Lexi Galleas to SSA number 13 Stockyards Commission located in the third, 11th, 12th and 20th wards.

I move for passage of these appointments by the first favorable roll call vote of the Committee on Finance and the associated unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

Hearing no objections so ordered.

Before reporting on the following items, I would be remiss if I did not highlight the success of our annual special service area hearings and the overall budget process.

A big thank you to the attentive and collaborative partnership with the Department of Planning and Development, specifically Mark Rocha and Mary O'Connor both went above and beyond and helped us meet critical deadlines to fund special service areas throughout the city, ensuring services encouraging economic development are provided.

Items three and 22 items three through 22 on the agenda are series of ordinances on tax levy scope of services budget and management agreements to various special service areas were collectively voted on by committee members and introduced by Mayor Lightfoot during the October 26 2022 and November 16th 2022 City Council meetings.

As I say number one dash 2015 State Street located in the fourth and 42nd wards.

As I say number eight Lakeview East located in the 44th and 46 wards.

As I say number 17 Central Lakeview located in the 44th and 46 wards.

As I say number 22 Andersonville located in the 40th 47th and 48th wards.

As I say number 27 West Lakeview Lincoln Belmont National located in the 32nd 44th and 47th wards.

As I say number 28 dash 2014 six corners located in the 45th ward.

As I say number 33 Wicker Park and Bucktown located in the first second and 32nd wards.

As I say number 42 71st Street Stoney Island located in the fifth seventh and eighth wards.

As I say number 47 47th Street and Cottage Grove located in the fourth ward.

As I say number 48 Old Town located in the second and 27th wards.

As I say number 50 Calumet Heights Avalon located in the fifth and eighth wards.

As I say 52 dash 2021 51st Street located in the third ward.

As I say 72 the Village Austin Chicago Cultural Corridor located in the 28th and 37th wards.

As I say 73 Chinatown located in the 25th ward.

As I say 76 North Michigan Avenue located in the second 42nd wards.

As I say 77 West Garfield Park located in 28th wards 28th ward.

As I say number three 63rd Street located in the 13th 16th 17th and 23rd wards.

As I say number 10 Back of the Yards located in 11th 12th 15th and 20th wards.

As I say number 13 Stock Yards located in the third 11th 12th and 20th wards.

As I say 39 Brighton Park Archer Heights located in 12th 14th and 15th wards.

I move for pass of these ordinances by the first available roll call vote committee on finance and the associated unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

Sorry hearing objections so items 23 through 29 of the agenda are series of ordinances on tax levy extensions enlargements and or establishments scope of services budget and management agreements to various special service there's special service areas which were collectively voted on by the committee members introduced by Mayor Lightfoot during November 16 2022 city council meeting.

As I say number 20 Southwestern Avenue located 19th ward.

As I say 62 Sogonosh located the 39th ward.

As I say 63 West Humble Park located in the 27th and 37th wards.

As I say 24 Clark Morris Glenwood located in the 49th ward.

As I say 56 dash 2022 Bronzeville located in the third ward.

As I say 59 2022 59th Street located in the 14th 16th and 23rd wards.

As I say number 80 Inglewood located in the 16th and 20th wards.

I move for pass of these ordinances by the first available roll call vote of the committee on finance and the associated unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

Item 30 is an ordinance in support of a class 7B tax incentive for property at 3552 West Grand Avenue in the 26 ward introduced by Mayor Lightfoot during November 16 2022 city council meeting in the 21st ward.

As I say number 80 I move for pass of this item by the first available roll call vote of the committee on finance and the associated unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

Item 31 is the ordinance authorizing the Department of Planning and Development to enter into an interim service provider agreement with the Belmont central Chamber of Commerce for SSA 28 dash 2014 until a 2023 service provider is selected through an RFP process and was approved by the city council for direct introduction by the Department of Planning and Development.

I move for pass of this item by the same roll call vote of the committee on finance and the associated unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

Thank you Madam President that concludes my report.

Next up the committee on housing and real estate chairman Osterman.

Thank you Madam President members of the city council reporting for your committee on housing and real estate which held the meeting on December 5th 2022.

The committee has a series of reports recommending the passage of the following item number one is a lease agreement with WEL BIC for Chicago 2701 LLC for portion of a warehouse facility loading dock offices employee parking lot at 2315 West 27th Street and 2701 Southwestern Avenue 25th Ward.

I move pass decided by the first fail of a roll call committee on finance and associated unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

Item number two is a negotiated sale of vacant city-owned property at 8645 South Yates Boulevard to be Leonard construction LLC for construction of office space and the seventh ward.

I make the same motion if there's no objection.

Item number three is a negotiated sale of city-owned property at 2928 East 89th Street the Pilsen Little Village Community Mental Health Center Inc DBA Pilsen Wellness Center for operation of a community clinic in the 10th Ward.

I make the same motion if there's no objection.

Item four is the acceptance of a bid for morning view world word church to purchase city-owned property at 621 East 45th Street under the negotiated sale in the third ward.

I make the same motion if there's no objection.

There are no objections so only.

Item five is acceptance of a bid of David D Flowers senior for purchase of city-owned property at 156 East 111th Street under the adjacent neighbor's acquisition program in the ninth ward.

I make the same motion if there's no objection.

There are no objections so ordered.

Item six is city acquisition of improved the vacant parcels or portions of lots commonly known as 518-522 East 47th Street and 526 East 47th Street in the third ward.

I make the same motion if there's no objection.

There are no objections so ordered.

Madam President that concludes my report.

Thank you Chairman.

Next up the Committee on License and Consumer Protection.

Vice Chair Hopkins.

Apologize Madam President I rise on behalf of Chairman Mitz who had to step out to tend to a personal matter to submit the report as vice chairman for your committee on license and consumer protection which held a meeting on December 12th.

The following items were passed by committee ordinance 22-3470 an ordinance to amend the municipal code designating a portion of the 19th ward as restricted residential zone prohibiting additional shared housing and vacation rentals.

I move the City Council concur in the recommendations of the license committee and pass this item by the same roll call vote as number one in the finance committee and the same affiliated unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

There are no objections so ordered.

Ordinance 22-3031 an ordinance to allow a one-time exception so the Chicago Cubs can hold a Major League Baseball night game at Wrigley Field on the evening of July 14th, 2023 in the 44th ward.

I move passage of this item by the same motion if there's no objection.

There are no objections so ordered.

Two ordinances regarding liquor moratoriums in the 8th ward and the 49th ward the first being 22-3651 in the 8th ward 22-3454 in the 49th ward.

I move passage of these two items by the same motion if there is no objection.

There are no objections so ordered.

Thank you Madam President this concludes my report.

Thank you.

Next up the committee on pedestrian and traffic safety chairman Burnett.

Thank you Madam President reporting for your committee on pedestrian and traffic safety for which a meeting was held on Thursday December 8th, 2022.

Before the committee there were 63 items.

There were 63 routine traffic items that passed and two routine traffic items that did not pass.

Madam President I do have an amendment on page four ward 44 to repeal disabled parking number 98880 for it says 721 north Aldean Avenue it should be 721 west Aldean Avenue.

If there's no objections I move for passage of these ordinances and the honor bus thank you and that concludes my report.

Hearing no objection so ordered thank you Mr.

Chairman.

Next up the committee on special events cultural affairs and recreation chairman Spazade.

Thank you Madam President you forgot one thing and a happy committee so I didn't want to steal your thunders.

And today is one happy day let me tell you so happy to report reporting on your committee on special events cultural affairs recreation also known as the happy committee which held a meeting on December 7th, 2022.

The committee recommends passes of the following items 2022-3791 expenditure of open space impact fee funds the neighbor space for acquisition and development of the property at 4131-4149 South Grexel Boulevard comprising Kenwood Garden and move passes to this item by the first most favorable roll call of the committee on finance and associated unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

Hearing no objection so ordered.

Item 2022-3792 expenditure of open space impact fee funds the neighbor space for installation of dedicated water hydrant at Montrose Metro Garden 4400-4498 North Ravenswood Avenue.

I move passes to this item by the first favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance and associated unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

Hearing no objection so ordered.

Item 2022-3793 expenditure of open space impact fee funds the neighbor space for recreational improvements at Pierce Elementary School 1423 West Brydmar Avenue.

I move passes of this item by the first favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance and associated unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

Hearing no objection so ordered.

Madam President this concludes my report.

Thank you chairman.

Next up the committee on transportation and public way chairman Brokens.

Thank you.

Good afternoon Madam President.

Reporting for your committee on transportation and public way.

A committee meeting was held on November 10th 2022 and December 8th 2022 the following ordinances were passed by a majority of the members present.

Page two includes one might Merrill ordinance introduced by the mayor's office.

Page three and four and include 18 ordinances for miscellaneous items introduced by the local alderman from boards one three eleven sixteen twenty three twenty seven thirty thirty three thirty five forty and forty seven through fifty.

Page five includes two transportation ordinances located in the 17th and 40th ward.

Page six includes one vacation ordinance in the 22nd ward.

I'll just note at this time there is one item that was not called that will be called for Norfolk Southern at the next city council meeting.

I also before I relinquish the mic on to wish everybody a very Merry Christmas Happy Hanukkah and Happy Festivus for Anthony who's not here right now but we appreciate each and every one of you all and hopefully you'll enjoy your holiday.

Your honor if there's no objection I move passage to these items by the last most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance and the unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

This is about the vote Mr.

Alderman Vasquez.

The chair recognizes Alderman Vasquez.

Just want to make sure to add Quanta to your colleague.

I appreciate that.

I got you.

Wow well there's a motion and no objection so ordered.

Thank you.

Thank you that concludes my report.

Thank you.

Next up the committee on zoning landmarks and building standards chairman Tunny.

Madam President members of the city council presenting a series of reports for your committee on zoning landmarks and building standards which held a meeting on November 29th.

We'll have two reports but the first meeting was on November 29th of 2022.

These reports are grouped for convenience.

The following items were passed by majority of the members present.

Pages one through 13 contain various map amendments in the second third fourth fifth sixth 11th 12th 19th 24th 25th 27th 28th 29 32nd 37th 40th 41st 42nd 43rd 44 46 and 47th wards.

Move passage by the I move passage of these items by the last most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance and associated unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

Hearing no objection so so ordered.

Page 13 contains various large signs over 100 square feet in area 24 feet above grade in the second 27 28 42nd 44th 47th 48th and 50th wards.

I move passage of these items by the same motion if there's no objection.

Hearing no objection so ordered.

Madam President that concludes my report of the November 29th meeting will now move on to the second report, which is Madam President members of the city council presenting a series of reports for your committee on zoning landmarks and building standards, which held a meeting on December 13 of 2022.

These reports are grouped for convenience and the following items were passed by majority of members present.

Each one contains document number 02022 dash 3777.

The amendment of municipal code titles 2411 14a 14b 17 and 18 and technical corrections to the Journal of proceedings of April 21st 2021 for ordinance number 02021 dash 1193 and the September 21st 2022 ordinance s 02022 dash 208 regarding Chicago construction codes.

I move passage of these items by the last most favorable roll call vote of the committee on finance and associated unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

Hearing no objection so ordered.

Page 1 contains document number 02022 dash 3729 the amendment of ordinance 02022 dash 1869 the zoning reclassification of map number 14 dash h at 1920 through 1924 west 59th street.

I move passage of this item by the same motion if there's no objection.

Hearing no objection so ordered.

This one is the casino one just in case people are paying attention to this one.

Page 2 contains document number 02022 dash 2629 a map amendment in the 27th ward for the addresses commonly known as 643 through 741 west Chicago avenue 641 through 739 north Halstead street 632 through 740 west Erie street 627 through 661 west Erie street 501 through 531 north displaying street and 524 through 630 west grand.

I understand a few of our colleagues would like to say a few words and that there will be a roll call at the end of the discussion.

Those wishing to speak on this this item.

Alderman Hopkins.

Yes, thank you, Madam President.

Rise in opposition to this and just to reiterate my concerns that I raised in zoning yesterday.

I did mention the fact that the land swap for the property on which the casino would eventually sit is the subject of a sale lease back transaction due to the fact that Balleys is under capitalized and it was pointed out after my comments yesterday the Balleys team responded.

It's not a particularly unusual arrangement in the casino world.

People in the casino business don't necessarily want to be in the real estate business and about half of the casinos in the country have a similar arrangement.

So I take the point but in this particular instance it isn't just the transaction but the motivation behind it.

This team is scrambling to find the capital needed to see this project through to fruition.

They are looking to everything they can possibly do.

Every trick that's available whether it's a commonly employed device or an unusual device is going to be necessary for this company which again had its stock downgraded recently at a 3.6 billion dollar level of debt.

Several consecutive quarters of negative earnings.

The recent quarter they did have a very slight uptick in positive earnings but the concerns of Wall Street remain about their viability to see this project through to fruition.

So it really raises the prospect for us as a city.

What do they bring to the table as our partner in this venture? We know what we bring to the table as a city.

Everything.

This simply couldn't happen without the city of Chicago authorizing it and being a partner to in this case our chosen selection Balleys.

What do they bring to the table? They don't bring the money that they need to make this happen.

They don't bring experience running a casino.

The senior partners of this venture had no experience in the casino industry when they acquired Balleys.

It was a business venture for them.

They weren't running a casino at the time and they don't have experience in a major construction venture such as this.

Alderman Villegas brought up the need for a project manager the other day for someone who could oversee a large construction project that things can go wrong.

Unforeseen obstacles tend to come out of left field with something like this.

We've seen it happen at O'Hare.

We've seen it happen with the chain burn interchange.

Recently in my ward the Webster Street bridge a relatively modest capital project compared to this one is behind almost a year due to unforeseen problems with supply chain issues, cost overruns, financing.

We're hitching our wagon to an unexperienced horse and that is a problem.

That is something that could come back to haunt us in the future if this project does not stay on budget and on schedule.

I remain opposed to it for these reasons.

I will be voting no today and I encourage you to join me in a vote of opposition to this project.

Thank you.

Thank you, Alderman Hopkins.

Any other members of the body that wish to speak Alderman Burnett? Yes.

Thank you very much Madam President.

Just like my colleague Alderman Hopkins who's very articulate, you know him and I are going into the next four years without an opponent.

Neither one of us have a race so we thank God.

I know I thank God for that.

I'm sure you do too.

We're very grateful for that but at the same time myself, like some other colleagues who step in the side, I had the opportunity to step aside too.

I got all my time.

I'll be 60 next year.

It's like I'm here and I have nothing to lose but one of the things that I will not do in this body is allow anyone to disrespect me no matter who they are, how big they think they are, how strong they think they are.

Nobody's going to disrespect me and I'm not talking about anybody in this body but I would say and those that I'm referring to know who I'm talking about.

I don't need anything from anybody.

Nothing.

Nothing.

I'm here.

I don't need anything.

I don't need anything.

I'm here.

I don't need nothing.

God bless me and we give that all to God.

We call that the favor of God but doing my daily reading in the Bible, right now I'm in one of the three books of Solomon and he talks about how you can grow to be king and you can do all this stuff and then younger people come and then they forget all about you, right? And then he goes on to say that everything is meaningless.

Nothing means anything except your relationship with God, right? And he goes on and on and on and says that all through ecclesiastics.

He says a little bit about it in Proverbs and now I'm just getting ready to get into the songs of the last book.

You know, it's a funny thing.

I don't know if you all know I do a ministry with the jails and the prisons.

I found myself leaving the jail Sunday encouraging brothers to come to God.

You know, we're blessed.

We got about 18 brothers to join church that day and you know, somebody called me and almost set me off and almost made me lose my religion.

But I got to pray every day because there's bigger things out here and you know, there's bigger issues to deal with.

And this casino is bigger than me, bigger than individuals, you know, bigger than other folks egos or what they think they are or who they think they are is bigger than that.

This is a big deal.

This is something that three administrations been trying to do for a long three administrations for over 30 years.

Over 30 years been trying to do it.

This mayor got it done.

This mayor got it done.

And we think about, you know, it's funny how right now and I'm looking at all of this stuff happening so fast, it's funny how, you know, we start out in 2019, then 2020, the pandemic come and then in between that we like scrambling around and then now in 2022 things start getting back on track and a lot of things start to happen.

And I think about all these things that's coming even in some of the three things that we dealt with just this week, the CPI, the red line, the casino, and I'm looking at all of these things and I'm like, man, being here 28 years, I remember when, you know, everybody tripping on some of this stuff.

I remember when we all thought it was necessary to vote for the parking meters and a lot of us did because it was necessary at that time in order to get past that budget, even though it turned out to be a bad idea in some instances.

I remember that.

I remember, you know, in other administrations, we voted for to fix the water lines and we put in there that every year, you know, bills will go up in order to fix that.

All of us thought that was necessary.

We voted on it and nobody tripped, you know, and I think about how we did do the red line going to the north side.

Nobody tripped.

All of this stuff coming to a head right now, you know, and dealing with dealing with this administration and everything is like a trip, right? But I'm gonna say this, a lot is getting done.

You know, it's funny, I was at a Christmas party last night in my ward in West Humboldt Park and, you know, and people were so excited.

They were like talking about, you know, you know, it's funny how when you deal with your community organization sometimes, you know, and you, you acquiesce power to them and everything and they're talking about how much they're getting done with the Invest Southwest, you know what I'm saying? And they were like so excited and, and they had hope, you know, we're talking about areas where development hasn't been done in over 50 years, you know, on the south side and the west side where equity is happening and things are, you know, things are coming to fruition.

And I was like, wow, and they mentioned the mayor's name and they started clapping.

And I was like, wow, this is a trip, you know, but people are feeling these things.

These things are starting to happen in the city, even though we went through all of this stuff.

And then I look at this casino and I look at, you know, how this last budget, that $40 million helped us a lot, y'all.

You know, I'm gonna tell you at that same meeting I was at, you know, I have a little storm almost on the, between me and Emma on Chicago Avenue, almost on Pulaski, they telling me they got a $30,000 tax bill.

Get ready to close down.

Could you imagine if we didn't get the $40 million from the casino upfront? What would we be right now? What would we have to do right now? What would go on right now if that didn't happen? Could you imagine if we didn't have a CPI in and it didn't balance out what we were going to be doing in the future in reference to this budget? Could you imagine if with this casino we're gonna get $200 million a year, man, that's gonna help sustain this city and help us all out in the future? We're talking about 6,000 jobs coming to the community.

We're talking about already, already in my area, people looking about other stuff, already.

People looking, people looking about other stuff and do other things to capture, to capture the momentum of all the things that's going on.

We're talking about an area in my ward where we used to call ghost town, right, right behind Montgomery Ward's building where myself and, you know, some of the guys I grew up with used to ride up bikes and chase rabbits and coyotes and, you know, go in and out of the trains and we're talking about an area now that's going to be so vibrant, so beneficial to the city, bring so many tax dollars to the city that is going to be incredible.

I'm for this casino because I'm for the future of this because I'm for the future of this city.

I'm not for it because I'm running because I need a boat.

I'm not for it because I'm trying to get attention.

Y'all don't have to put me in the news, put me on TV.

It don't matter, right? I'm not doing it for that.

I'm doing it because just like with the other things, I thought it was the right thing for this city.

This casino is the right thing for this city is going to bring being a former member of the Choo Chicago Board.

Tourism, I'm telling you, getting that out of town money is not a joke.

We're talking about millions of dollars.

At one time we had over 50,000 people coming to this city and one of the main challenges that we have in competing with other cities is our two challenges, our two competitors, Disney World and Las Vegas.

Disney World and Las Vegas.

Chicago comes in third.

With this casino, we are going to compete.

Now, of course, now, of course, of course, we want to make sure that there's equity.

We talk about 40% of minorities getting jobs, contracts.

I want to make sure people from Cabrini and I got that commitment.

People from my neighborhood be able to get jobs.

Got that commitment.

And that's a big deal because it can change the face of that community because of these opportunities.

So I'm for this casino because I'm for the city of Chicago.

I'm for money going to other communities to help other neighborhoods.

And I know that this casino is going to help.

And I want to thank you Mayor for what you have done.

Thank you.

Thank you, Alderman Burnett.

The chair recognizes Alderman Villegas.

Thank you.

Thank you, Madam President.

I stand a little bit of concerns about this this project.

This is a Triple P public-private partnership where the city of Chicago will be a partner in this endeavor.

I'm concerned because I don't think that the administration currently right now has a professional team on board to deliver a project of this size.

When we take a look at the 78, when we take a look at Lincoln Yards, these have been projects that have been talked about that are multi-billion dollar projects.

When we take a look at projects similar to O'Hare where there are PMOs, I would encourage that as we move forward with this public-private partnership that we have the owner's rep, the owner's rep on board to ensure that the project is going to be delivered on time and on schedule only because there's revenue tied to this.

There's revenue that's tied to this.

So we want to make sure that this project is done quickly so that we can capture that revenue to help our budget.

So those are the concerns that I have right now.

I would also like to say that as it relates to including minority and women, that we should be taking a look at including our vocational schools that we currently have in place, whether it's CVS, Dunbar, Prosser, taking a look at encouraging these contractors to utilize these young men and women, predominantly African American and Latino, that are going to be graduating with an opportunity to enter into the middle class with a skilled trade.

So that's something that we need to ensure with this project moving forward that number one, we have a PMO that's going to help deliver this project on time and on budget.

And number two, making sure that we're including these young CPS students that are going to graduate with an opportunity to get a career, a middle class career in the building trades.

Thank you.

Thank you, Alderman.

The chair recognizes Alderman Riley.

Thank you, Madam President.

Honestly thought that when George Cardin has lost or left, speeches would be a little shorter around here.

But I have nothing but respect for my neighbor and my colleague, Alderman Burnett.

All kidding aside, and also for the record, I'm not the one who brought up the parking meter deal during this debate.

Walter, you did that.

But I spoke to this in committee and I'm not going to speak long today, like some, because I think it's pretty well documented how I feel about the project, my strong opposition to it.

Nearly 90% of my constituents in the 42nd Ward were opposed to it, and certainly I've been hearing from them very regularly.

But I did want to highlight a few things that I find troubling with not just this project, but really the process.

This process was like nothing we've ever done before.

And typically our processes are similar for zoning and plan commission approvals, but this one seemed like it was literally turned on its head.

To take you back to the chronology, the administration first appointed their own internal evaluation committee to select five finalists among all the bidders.

And then sometime after that, we empaneled our own casino committee chaired by Chairman Tunney.

And the purpose for that committee was to vet these three finalists that the mayor's office had selected.

And after just two short meetings, that was derailed by finalists being selected by the administration, not by the committee.

And I can tell you that many of us had expected the committee process to be where all of the vetting would occur.

We would get to compare between the competing proposals and look at their financing, look at their balance sheets and ask them questions and that didn't occur.

And so I'm really disappointed that that part of the process failed.

The other thing that's really concerning to me is that our casino committee and this body approved the temporary and permanent casinos before traffic studies and public safety plans had been developed.

And you all know in negotiating zoning in your wards, especially if it's a big impactful project, traffic studies and safety plans are the things that you expect to have in hand while you're considering the project and use those things as ways to improve the project.

That's what I do with every single plan development that I negotiate downtown.

I know my colleagues, Alderman Dowell and Hopkins and Burnett do the same.

That didn't occur here.

We didn't have that ability.

And so it's troubling that for the permanent site, that traffic study was not delivered to this body until 11 a.m.

on Monday during the plan commission vote to approve this project.

So not even the plan commission had the benefit of reviewing a traffic study or a safety plan before they approved this project.

I can tell you that judging from Wall Street's reaction to these quarterly investor calls that Bally's does with their shareholders, they were able to they're very skeptical about this project and its ability to be financed.

And that would explain why Bally's went to Oak Street capital, good Chicago business here, to secure 500 million dollars in funding, 200 million of it through a land sale lease back and another 300 million dollars in available equity.

That's a half a million dollars for a 1.7 billion dollar project.

In fact, Bally's during the zoning committee hearing admitted that if Bally's defaults, Oak Street will own this casino.

And do we know Oak Street has a lot of proficiency in running them? I know they bankroll them, but we know that they're any good at running them.

So something to consider.

I could go on and on and on about traffic and safety and why we should be very skeptical about this project, but I won't.

I would just say remember this day and who knows what the Illinois gaming board's going to do.

But people in this room raise these red flags now and I hope to God they don't come true because Alderman Burnett is correct.

The city is very much depending on this project to be successful and not just the city but our pension funds.

So we've made a very meaningful important important decision here.

Obviously we can all agree to disagree, but I really do hope that the opponents of the casino are somehow wrong.

I don't think we are, but I hope so because literally our pension fund's future is depending on it.

I'll be voting no.

Chairman Tani, back to you.

Thank you Mayor and thank you colleagues.

I just want to remind our committee that the casino vote has already happened.

What we're in front of this zoning is some modifications to the plan development, which obviously took out some parking, but primarily they had to go back to the plan commission because there was somewhat some changes.

So the arguments for and against, we've heard this a couple of months ago, and I do as chairman of the committee, I want to give a little more of a little chronology on this because it was back in December of whatever year it was that there was a presentation by all the committee applicants, the casino applicants at the UIC pavilion.

And it was an all day event.

And I was not the chairman of the casino committee at the time, but being a hospitality guy and the fact that casinos have been dreamed about for whether it's a nightmare or a dream for three generations or three decades, I should say, but my memory serves me correct.

It was Alderman Patrick Thompson and myself that went and listened to all of the presentations, which at that point there were five.

And so we had it wasn't really as quickly as one thinks if one was interested in this subject, as I was, you know, I spent a lot of time with this.

Procedurally wise, I felt a little disappointed.

And I think a majority of my committee members felt that we should have worked harder on the adaptive reuse to McCormick Place one, you know, so that being said, that was not a charge of our committee.

And that being said, I think while the casino met, there were briefings, there was a lot of give and take on all of the three proposals that went in front of our committee.

And, you know, I would also say to agree with Alderman Riley, I think the mayor probably short circuited her decision before the committee had some point.

It was the charge of our committee to say is valleys up or down at that point, which I think we could have been a little more patient.

But that being said, those arguments about the casino are under the bridge, so to speak.

This actual conversation today is about a series of amendments to the PD and not to rethink where we're at.

So with that being said, you know, I am in support of it.

I think there's risk in everything.

But I think that whether it's valleys or Oak Street, I mean, this is an industry that we, the city, know nothing about.

And God bless, hopefully we don't ever get have to get that instrumentally involved in the casino business.

But it's I think it's a risk that we have to take as a city.

And I am in support of it.

And I think I've said my piece on it.

And I urge you to an I vote on the roll call.

Thank you, Mayor.

Thank you, Chairman.

Madam Clerk, please open up the electronic voting.

The voting is now open.

Please hit refresh and submit.

All the women Taylor needs some assistance.

Oh, it's your time.

All in Burnett.

All the men's facade on his facade.

Any other members need assistance with voting.

All of them vastness.

All of them.

All the making.

Yes.

All the man King rule 14.

All the men, a barker.

I believe that all the making you have to stay on the record basis.

Well, go ahead.

The recusal.

Oh, go ahead.

Soon as I was recognized.

Yeah, I have to recuse myself out of an abundance of caution for Rule 14.

My husband's law firm at some point may have represented valleys.

Thank you.

All of them in a barker.

All the men of barker is a yes.

All of them Burke.

Burke, I'll remember if they know all the men Coleman.

All the men Coleman is a yes.

All the men Curtis.

All the men Curtis was a yes.

All the Maldonado.

All the Maldonado is not here.

Alderman Austin, not here.

Alderman met not in the chambers.

Alderman Osterman.

Alderman Osterman is a yes.

All voting that has wish to vote the voting is closed.

All the men Osterman is a yes.

39 to five.

The days are 39 the days are five.

Alderman Kaplan on the motion for reconsideration.

Madam President I move to reconsider the vote.

All those in favor of the motion for reconsideration signify by saying aye.

All those opposed say nay.

The motion for reconsideration fails.

No matter passes.

Chairman Tunney, back to you.

Continuing on with my report.

Page one through seven contain various map amendments in the fifth, 13th, 20th, 25th, 26th, 27th, 30th, 32nd, 33rd, 34th, 37th, 42nd, 43rd, and 44th wards.

I move passage of these items by the same motion if there's no objection.

Page eight contains various large signs over 100 square feet in area 24 feet above grade.

In the 11th, 28th, and 43rd wards.

I move passage of these items by the same motion if there's no objection.

There are no objections to the order.

And Madam President that concludes my report.

Thank you Chairman Tunney.

Next up the agreed calendar on Chairman Harris.

Thank you.

I've received from the clerk a listing of items.

Items for approval.

Thank you.

I've received from the clerk a listing of items proposed for the agreed calendar consisting of congratulatory commemorative and memorial resolutions offered by Alderman Hopkins, Hairston, Harris, Quinn, Burke, Lopez, Coleman, O'Shea, Taylor, and Gardner, Tabares, Villegas, Metz, New Jim, Tunney, and Capelman, Oster, and Osterman, and Hatton.

I move passage of the agreed calendar and the omnibus.

Hearing no objection so ordered a new business.

Mr.

Clerk, please call the awards beginning with the 50th.

Claims, free permits, license, de-exemptions, which are referred to the Committee on Finance.

Zoning amendments which are referred to the Committee on Zoning, Landmarks, and Building Standards.

Traffic regulations, traffic control signals, and traffic signs which are referred to the Committee on Pedestrian and Traffic Safety.

Grants of privilege on and over the public way which are referred to the Committee on Transportation and Public Way.

And exemption from physical barrier requirements for commercial driveway alley access to parking facilities which are referred to the Committee on Transportation and Public Way.

Almond Silverstein and others have proposed ordinance for amendment of municipal code section 2-102-030cc regarding establishment of Chicago fatal crash legacy report which is referred to the Committee on Transportation and Public Way.

Almond Hatton and others have proposed resolution for submission of a public question by referendum to Chicago voters at next regular election proposing increase in city of Chicago real estate transfer tax for purposes of providing resources for affordable housing and services to combat homelessness which is referred to the Committee on Committees and Rules.

Almond Osterman has proposed ordinance for the call for placement of a plaque honoring Marion Jean Kennedy-Vellini at 5708 North Ridge Avenue which is referred to the Committee on Housing and Real Estate.

Almond Martin has proposed ordinance for amendment of municipal code sections 4-60-022 and 4-60-023 to allow additional alcoholic liquor and packaged goods licenses on portion of North Lincoln Avenue which is referred to Committee on License and Consumer Protection.

Almond Gardiner has proposed ordinance for amendment of municipal code section 4-60-023 to allow additional packaged goods licenses on portions of West Higgins Avenue which is referred to Committee on License and Consumer Protection.

Almond Gardiner also has proposed orders for the issuance of permits for signed sign boards at 4445 West Irving Park Road which are referred to Committee on Zoning, Landmarks and Billing Standards.

Almond Riley has proposed orders for amendment of municipal code chapters 1-23 and 2-54 regarding failure to maintain eligibility to do business with city and required disclosure information which is referred to Committee on Contracting Oversight and Equity.

Almond Riley also has proposed order for the issuance of a permit for signed sign board at 115 East River Walk South which is referred to Committee on Zoning, Landmarks and Billing Standards.

Almond Viegas has proposed resolution to call for hearings on required reporting of technology vendors contracting with city and expansion of diversity and equity within technology which is referred to Committee on Economic Capital and Technology Development.

Almond Viegas also has proposed resolution to call for town hall on possible implementation of municipal sidewalk snow and ice removal pilot program which is referred to a joint committee comprised of the members of the Committee on Transportation and Public Way and the members of the Committee on Economic Capital and Technology Development.

Almond Rodriguez Sanchez and others have proposed orders for amendment of municipal code title 5 by adding a new chapter 5-25 entitled Chicago Healthy Homes Checkup Pilot Program and chapter 5-26 entitled Rental Housing Unit Registry which is referred to Committee on Housing and Real Estate.

Almond Burnett has proposed orders for the issuance of permits for signed sign boards at 345 North Morgan Street which is referred to Committee on Zoning, Landmarks and Billing Standards.

Almond Sietro Lopez and others have proposed resolution to call for public hearings on disciplinary case against Officer Robert Baker which is referred to Committee on Public Safety.

Almond Sietro Lopez and others have proposed resolution to call for subject matter hearings on reinstitution of Office of Tax Protection which is referred to Committee on Finance.

Almond DeBarras has proposed order for the issuance of permit for a signed sign board at 5230 South Cicero Avenue which is referred to Committee on Zoning, Landmarks and Billing Standards.

Almond Rodriguez and others have proposed orders to call for establishment of the 2023 Property Tax Relief Loan Program which is referred to Committee on Housing and Real Estate.

Almond Brookins has proposed ordinance for amendment of municipal code section 4-60-023 to allow additional package group licenses on portion of South Halston Street which is referred to Committee on License and Consumer Protection.

Almond Moore has proposed orders for amendment of municipal code section 17-13-0103A regarding application fee for special use applications which is referred to Committee on Zoning, Landmarks and Billing Standards.

Almond Burke has proposed order for the issuance of permit for a signed sign board at 5825 South Kedsey Avenue which is referred to Committee on Zoning, Landmarks and Billing Standards.

Almond Lee has proposed ordinance for an honorary street designation as Joe Harris Way which is referred to Committee on Transportation and Public Way.

Almond Lee also has proposed order for the issuance of a permit for a signed sign board at 810 West 31st Street which is referred to Committee on Zoning, Landmarks and Billing Standards.

Almond Selosky Garza has proposed orders for an honorary street designation as Honorary Amana Kahlo Way which is referred to Committee on Transportation and Public Way.

Almond Sawyer has proposed order for amendment of municipal code titles 2 and 7 by modifying section 2-112-110 and adding new section 7-20-050 regarding Chicago African American HIV AIDS Response Fund which is referred to a joint committee comprised of the members of the Committee on Health and Human Relations and the members of the Committee on the Budget and Government Operations.

Almond Sawyer also has proposed order to call for the Committee on Committees and Rules to amend the City Council Rules of Order and Procedure for 2019-2023 term to reflect gender neutrality which is referred to Committee on Committees and Rules.

Almond Esparza and others have proposed resolution for amendment of Chairman and Committee on Environment Protection and Energy for the 2019-2023 term which is referred to Committee on Committees and Rules.

Two committees have been called to Committee on Committees and Rules in the Committee on Environment.

The members refer to the Committee on Committees and Rules.

Almond Lopez and others have proposed order for prohibition of City Department's employees for maintaining, accessing or utilizing TikTok applications which is referred to Committee on Economic Capital and Technology Development.

Two committees have been called to Committee on Economic Capital and Technology Development and the Committee on Committees and Rules and matters referred to the Committee on Committees and Rules.

Almond Lopez and others have proposed resolution to call for hearings on the status of you non-immigrant status certifications within the City of Chicago which is referred to a joint committee comprised of the members of the Committee on Immigrant and Refugee Rights and the members of the Committee on Public Safety.

Almond Lopez and others also have proposed order to call for transparent certification of you non-immigrant status certifications which is referred to the joint committee comprised of the members of the Committee on Immigrant and Refugee Rights and the members of the Committee on Public Safety.

Your Honor, that concludes the presentation of all the medical introductions.

Thank you, sir.

Next up the approval of the journal, Alderman Mitchell.

Madam President, I'm not aware of any corrections to the journal from the November 16 2022 regular meeting and move that it be approved.

Hearing objection so order.

Next up unfinished business, Alderman Mitchell, Madam President, I'm aware of one piece of unfinished business.

It was filed by Alderman Apollo Tano and calls for a vote on S.

021 dash 3215, which was the third and published on November 16 2022.

There was a second rule 41 notice regarding booting and private lots, but it has been withdrawn.

The chair recognizes Alderman Napolitano.

Thank you, Madam President, I move for the passage of S.

02021 dash 3215 amendment of the municipal code chapter eight dash two zero by adding new section eight dash two zero dash two dash zero two zero regarding unlawful possession of a firearm, which was published at the November 16 2022 city council meeting by the first most favorable vote of the Committee on Finance and associated motion to reconsider.

Hearing no objection so order.

The chair recognizes all the Mccurdice.

I just wanted to.

The on the autumn and Curtis already pastor.

I'd like to object to that.

So, well, there's an objection being raised, and if within I think that debate interval call would be.

Well, sir, first of all your objections untimely.

As I looked across the room, when all of them in a pilot Tano made his motion, there are no objections made.

I said, hearing no objection so order.

The matter is, is passed.

You can note your objection for the, you can know, sir, you can note your objection for the record, but the matter is passed.

Well then I'd like to reconsider.

Motion to reconsider.

So, I don't believe that I don't you're seeking to apply my vote, because I voted yes on the first item of finance.

You're seeking to apply my vote which was in the affirmative to this ordinance.

I am now saying that I'd like to reconsider that vote.

Well, but what I'm saying to you sir is that when the matter comes before the body for consideration, as you saw the objections, they raised their hand and said that they had an objection, and their objection was noted for the for the record, what people don't do and it's not timely is after the matter has already been ruled upon, and we're moving on now, three items later, for you to stand up and say, I want a motion for reconsideration your your objection is simply not timely.

I think that there has been no motion to reconsider on this specific item.

And in this case, yeah, no, sir as you as you all know having been here for quite some time.

Members.

Members can reference the first most favorable role call vote of the Committee on Finance, and the associated unsuccessful motion for reconsideration, which is exactly what alternate lapel Napolitano did.

And there were no objections, no exceptions whatsoever.

So the matter was ruled upon by the chair, your objection now is on timely sir.

Well, I'm raising an objection, I think that under the rules of order procedure and under Roberts rules of order.

When there is an action being raised, it is a courtesy and it's also just a democratic thing to say, well there's an objection being raised now, and we should therefore then have a role call in the debate.

So if you had an injection you can raise your direction you're clearly laying the record for that, but the time to make the objection to the motion is when the motion is made in a timely fashion, not three items later, as you are attempting to do now, your motion is untimely.

We are moving on so my motion is to one have a roll call is if that's being denied then my motion then is to reconsider your motion is denied.

Well then I'd like to motion to overrule the chair, because I think that this is a democratic process.

I'm clearly raising objections it's so timely the matter just pass.

So I think it's so timely.

I think the democratic thing to do is to have a debate and a discussion on this item.

We've received a letter from 27 organizations including the ACLU of Illinois, they raised serious concerns around this ordinance and whether or not it actually will create more public safety in the city of Chicago, and I don't have any doubt about that sir but I'm struggling with this why I know what I'm struggling with sir, but I'm struggling with sir, is knowing that this matter was coming up.

And I think that ultimately Paul eternal stood up, raising issue.

There was ample opportunity for you to make this very point, ask for a roll call vote.

And you failed to do that.

I don't understand I don't understand, I don't understand why you failed to do that in a timely fashion of doing it.

You're untimely you should allow them your own proceed, your untimely.

Well I'm motion to overrule the chair so there should be a roll call on that.

So the, the, the motion that is now before.

The council by alderman Ramirez Lopez is to redo a vote that he had plenty of opportunity to weigh in on and call for a roll call vote to reconsider a matter that's already been decided by the body.

So that is a matter that is up for your consideration.

Ladies and gentlemen, I've objected, saying that his motion is untimely.

So the first process for the first process.

That is a simple request to my colleagues.

If we allow this to proceed, then it means that if you have a similar objection in the future, that you would not be able to register your noble, you know, no, sure it does not it what it means is that you must pay attention during the course of the city council meeting, and when you have an objection to stand up and make that objection in a timely fashion.

That's what your colleagues have been doing throughout the course of this city council meeting, and every city council meeting, but it would a hold on sir, let me finish on the yellow but the point of the matter is this is a democratic body.

It's good to have democratic debate.

Yeah, and a democratic body has rules that should be followed, sir.

And that means also paying attention when a matter comes up.

So you have a motion, which we are going to vote on your motion is to overrule the chair who ruled your objection.

Now, untimely, even though if your issue is that you want to be noted as a no, you've done that, and the record is clear.

But by all means, we should have a vote.

The ruling of the chair that Alderman Ramirez Lopez is objection is untimely.

I'm sorry.

Should the issue is show the ruling of the chair that Alderman Ramirez roses objection is untimely be sustained.

Madam Clerk, can you please open up.

The chair recognizes autumn and new gym.

Point of clarification, Madam President, could you kindly just tell us again what a yes vote versus a no vote is apologies.

A yes vote is to overrule the ruling of the chair, which was what the motion is to overturn the ruling of the chair.

The motion is the vote is, shall the ruling of the chair, be upheld a yes vote is upholding the ruling of the chair, a no vote is to object to overturn the ruling of the chair.

Thank you, Madam Chair for the clarification.

Thank you.

Thanks for the question of clarification.

So I want to make sure that we're properly.

So yes is to uphold the ruling of the chair, no is to overrule the ruling chair.

Give us a moment while we deal with the technical issues here.

Okay, everyone voting is now open.

Hit refresh.

I appreciate it.

Thank you.

Alderman Abarca, would you like to give a voice vote.

Can you please mark, Alderman Abarca, as yes.

Alderman Burke.

Would you like to give a voice vote.

Yes, Alderman Burke is the yes.

Alderman Lopez is not in the chambers.

All the remits is not in the chambers.

And Alderman Riley is not in the chambers.

Okay.

Voting is now closed.

And the ruling of the chair is upheld Alderman Kaplan on a motion for reconsideration, Madam President I move to reconsider the vote, all those in favor of the motion for reconsideration signify by saying I all those opposing a.

The nays have at the motion for consideration fails.

I'm in Mitchell back to you.

I'm sorry.

Chair recognizes all the men, the pilot time.

Thank you, Madam President, I'll just make this extremely quick.

This was written about a year and a half ago.

I want to thank you and your administration.

We wrote it originally, it was open for anyone to critique and change it to make it better, more palatable for the city of Chicago.

Thank you.

Tall to you and my colleagues, give another tool to our Chicago police officers, and this, this incredible war on guns that we're facing day in and day out.

So thank you very much for your help on this.

Thank you my colleagues as well.

Thank you.

I'm Mitchell.

I'm not aware of any further unfinished business.

The chair recognizes all of them.

Merry Christmas to everybody.

I'll tell you a fair and I were having a conversation and we're trying to figure out both of us have memberships to ballets that we don't use, and we were trying to figure out.

We were trying to figure out if we needed to recuse ourselves on the last vote.

Well, okay.

All right.

Well, Merry Christmas each and every one of you.

We're definitely going now.

Over Mitchell miscellaneous business, Madam President, I'm not aware of any miscellaneous business, right the date and time of the next meeting.

I've handed up to the clerk and ordinance that said in the dating time with the next meeting.

Mr.

Clerk, please read.

Moved by the city council of the city of Chicago, section one, the next regular meeting of the city council of the city of Chicago shall be held on Wednesday January 18 2023 beginning at 10 o'clock in the city council chamber on the second floor and city hall 121 North LaSalle Street Chicago Illinois section to disorder shall take effect and being forced from and after its passage.

Order, or the Mitchell the omnibus.

Madam President move that matters in the omnibus be passed by the most first most favorable roll call vote by the Committee on Finance and the associated unsuccessful motion to reconsider.

So, so ordered and ladies and gentlemen before we adjourn let me remind you that I am treating you for a holiday lunch immediately after city council here, each drink and be married.

Thank you.

All of them in Mitchell and emotion to adjourn, Madam President, there being no further business before this body I move that we adjourn.

There are no objections so ordered.

Merry Christmas.

Happy New Year.

Happy Kwanzaa.

Happy Hanukkah.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.